DOCUMENT RESUME 



ED 482 098 



IR 058 786 



AUTHOR 

TITLE 

PUB DATE 
NOTE 



AVAILABLE FROM 

PUB TYPE 
EDRS PRICE 
DESCRIPTORS 



IDENTIFIERS 



Nevile, Liddy; McCathieNevile , Charles 

The Virtual Ramp to the Equivalent Experience in the Virtual Museum: 
Accessibility to Museums on the Web. 

2002-04-00 

lip.; In: Museums and the Web 2002: Selected Papers from an 
International Conference (6th, Boston, MA, April 17-20, 2002) ; see 
IR 058 778. 

For full text: http://www.archimuse.com/mw2002/ 
papers/nevile/nevile . html/ . 

Reports - Descriptive (141) — Speeches/Meeting Papers (150) 

EDRS Price MF01/PC01 Plus Postage. 

Aboriginal Australians; * Access to Computers; * Access to 
Information; * Accessibility (for Disabled) ; Disabilities; 
information Technology; ^Museums; *User Needs (Information); Users 
(Information) ; World Wide Web 
^Virtual Museums 



ABSTRACT 

This paper argues that a range of forms and modalities of resources 
should be provided to ensure accessibility and richness on the World Wide Web for all 
users. Based on experiences in developing virtual exhibitions of Quinkan Aboriginal 
Rock Art, the authors present a brief overview of the technology available for 
accessibility. Then they explore some different approaches to providing access through 
the perspective of the IMS Global -Learning Consortium. They further develop these 
ideas with particular reference to their similarity with current museum practice and 
consider the implications for accessibility. Finally they recommend that museum 
exhibitors and authors, developing interactive or electronic resources, include 
planning for accessibility as part of their initial design process. (MES) 




Reproductions supplied by EDRS are the best that can be made 
from the original document. 



« IR058786 ED 482 098 




Register 

Workshops 

Sessions 

Speakers 

Interactions 

Demonstrations 

Exhibits 

Events 

Best of the Web 
Key Dates 
Boston 
Sponsors 



A&MI 



Archives & Museum 
Informatics 
2008 Murray Ave. 
Suite D 

Pittsburgh, PA 
15217 USA 
i nfo @ arc h i m use.com 
www . a rc h imuse.com 



Q. 



Se arch 

A&M] 



Join our M ailin g List. 
Privacy. 



PAPERS 

Museums and the Web 2002 



The Virtual Ramp To The Equivalent Experience 
In The Virtual Museum: Accessibility To 
Museums On The Web 



Liddy Nevile, Motile Research, Australia and Charles 
McCathieNevile, W3C, France 



U.S. DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION 

Office of Educational Research and Improvement 

EDUCATIONAL RESOURCES INFORMATION 
CENTER (ERIC) 

m This document has been reproduced as 
** received from the person or organization 
originating it. 

□ Minor changes have been made to 



Abstract 



* Points of view or opinions stated in this 
document do not necessarily represent 
official OERI position or policy. 



People with disabilities are slowly finding their way on to the Web, 
up the virtual ramp, as it were. The ramp that is being built is 
proving popular among many users beyond the community for 
whom it was first requested. Good practice has ramps integrated 
into the design of buildings and Web sites from the start, and 
everyone can feel equally welcome and share in the experiences 
provided beyond the ramp. The same practices can be adopted 
on the Web, but often the question is what the best virtual 
experience that will provide for all inclusively is. The authors argue 
a range of forms and modalities of resources should be provided 
to ensure accessibility and richness for all users. 



PERMISSION TO REPRODUCE AND 
DISSEMINATE THIS MATERIAL HAS 
BEEN GRANTED BY 



D. Bearman 



TO THE EDUCATIONAL RESOURCES 
INFORMATION CENTER (ERIC) 



Introduction 

After a number of years, the communities of people with disabilities are 
slowly finding their way on to the Web, up the virtual ramp, as it were. 
The ramp that is being used is, as in many other contexts, popular 
among many users beyond the community for whom it was first 
requested. Good practice has ramps integrated into the design of 
institutions from the start, and everyone can feel equally welcome and 
share in the experiences provided beyond the ramp. 

The authors have been working with a community responsible for a 
'museum' that covers several hundred square miles. It contains a 
collection of 100,000 Quinkan Aboriginal cave paintings and is located in 
the far north of Queensland in Australia. In this context, the idea of an 
equivalent experience for those who visit on the Web is of paramount 
interest. In fact, almost everyone who visits and experiences Quinkan 
culture and artifacts will be doing so via the Web. Almost all of the 
'museum' is inaccessible (the nearest city is 250 miles away) for one 
reason or another. Currently, work is being undertaken to develop an 
interpretive centre for this museum and the on-line component of that is 
of interest here. (See the Queensland Heritage Trails Web site, 
http://www.heritagetrails.qId.gov.au/fs_quinkan.html) 

Virtual tours of Quinkan country will be designed to attract visitors to the 
real thing, but only a small proportion of visitors will make the journey. 
The virtual tour will provide the first level of equivalence; the virtual 
experience for those who cannot have the real experience. The second 
level of equivalence comes in when the first experience is transformed 
for the benefit of those who, for whatever reason, do not get access to 
the first level. 



ERIC 



BEST COPY AVAILABLE 



file://E :\M W2002\papers\nevi le\nevile .html 



5/22/2003 






'Equivalence' in the accessibility context means that a user who avoids 
one presentation of a resource, for one reason or another, can choose 
an alternative resource to gain an 'equivalent' experience. It is an open 
question what is equivalent to the range of resources and activities being 
developed for what is seen as a museum's target audience. So questions 
for consideration when developing virtual exhibitions of the Quinkan 
Rock Art include: 

• What is equivalent to being shown a 36,000 year old cave painting 
by an elder of a community that has lived in the region for tens of 
thousands of years?, and 

• What is the equivalent of the experience for those who either 
cannot see, or cannot hear the primary virtual experience? 

For a starting point, the authors present a brief overview of the 
technology available for accessibility. Then they explore some different 
approaches to providing access, through the perspective of IMS 
(http://www.imsproject.org/). They further develop these ideas with 
particular reference to their similarity with current museum practice, and 
consider the implications for accessibility. Finally they recommend that 
museum exhibitors and authors, developing interactive or electronic 
resources, include planning for accessibility as part of their initial design 
process. 

The Technology of Access 

The ramp in the online context is what is defined as universally 
accessible Web content, according to the W3C Web Content 
Accessibility Guidelines (http://www.w3.org/WAI/). An effective ramp 
exists, according to the W3C Web Content Accessibility Initiative working 
groups' recommendations, when Web content is equally available to all 
accessibility-standards-compliant devices, whether they are GUI 
browsers, have mouseless interfaces, or are Braille devices. The 
guidelines relate to content, authoring tools and access devices and 
agents. 

In the case of a virtual museum, or the online publication and interactions 
of a museum, such ramps are now required by law in many countries. 
Currently there is work going on to implement the accessibility 
requirements but some of this work is not merely technical, and this is 
especially of interest in the museum context. Generally, the familiar 
question that is now well-integrated into thinking in the physical world, 
"How can experiences be provided by museums in ways that provide 
equal satisfaction for all" is extended to ask, "How can virtual 
experiences be provided by museums in ways that cater for all needs, 
including for those who could never enter a physical museum?" 

W3C's Web Content Accessibility Guidelines, derived from consultation 
and consensus among the many and varied disabilities communities, and 
content and technology developers, call for the provision of equivalent 
alternative resources and activities for those who cannot use the initial 
presentation, be it an interactive multimedia object, a video, or just a 
picture. In this paper, we start to formulate ways of thinking about what 
this may mean for the design of online experiences. 

A video file can have multiple tracks, each catering for modalities that 
suit different needs. Sometimes such a composite object can be 
constructed as a unit, with software that handles all the modalities, and 



0 

ERJC 



3 



file://E:\MW2002\papers\nevile\nevile.html 



5/22/2003 



on other occasions it needs to be formed by the close association of the 
sub-objects. It can even be a combination of sub-elements from different 
sources, as happens when, post-publication of the primary objects, 
someone else publishes an alternative transformed version, say a 
caption file that relates to the original resource. Integration of all these 
files, including the capability to vary the speed with which interactions 
happen, can be organized by a single integrating language. SMIL 
(pronounced 'smile' and meaning Synchronised Multimedia Integration 
Language), (http://www.w3.org/SMIL/) is the recommended XML 
(http://www.w3.org/XML/) language that can perform this function 
(http://www.w3.org/AudioVideo/). 

Composite objects can be combined in the usual way as Web pages 
before being published to the Web . In fact, in new work on theories of 
how authors can learn to create Web resources, the authors have 
worked with the metaphor of a newspaper. The Web author, according to 
this theory, is encouraged to develop atomic Web content, aggregate it 
as accessible composite objects, and then to lay them out on a Web 
page, to create the Web resource. 

An important technology that has made this an appropriate practice is the 
development of Cascading StyleSheets (http://www.w3.org/Style/CSS/). 
Using these, and separating the content from its layout is the first step. 
The content, apart from being composed of objects that are themselves 
accessible (because they consist of a range of sub-objects that 
themselves cater for a range of needs), needs to be carefully classified 
or structured. HTML (now deprecated in favor of XHTML) and other XML 
markup languages can be used to tag objects within the resource so that 
navigation elements, headings, sub-headings, addresses, etc can be 
easily picked up by access devices and presented in ways that make 
them easily identifiable, as they are for those of us who can see them on 
a web page. CSS is then used to format these objects in ways that make 
them most useable according to the particular access device being 
employed. The style sheets 'cascade' in order to allow for a set of them, 
including a user preferred one, and it is possible for the user to change 
the layout or presentation by changing the style sheet. In other words, 
while a GUI device such as a standard browser might use a style sheet 
that has tags describing how the text, images, links should appear on a 
screen, a screen-reading device may override the given style sheet and 
use one that applies different voices as it reads out the differently 
structured objects. 

With the developments made possible by XML, style sheets can 
themselves be transformed, not just alternated, and there is considerable 
scope for good devices to make objects and thus resources much more 
meaningful and useable according to the needs and devices of the user. 

It is in this context that the authors have been working on their 
newspaper metaphor for developing accessible resources. 

Like a modern museum, the Web is not a static experience of receiving 
information, but an interactive dynamic space for exploration. Work on 
ensuring the accessibility of new Web technologies such as Scalable 
Vector Graphics (http://www.w3.org/SVG/), a way of presenting dynamic 
animated graphic material in textual form so it can be rendered as 
images or text, SMIL (as mentioned above) and new interactive building 
blocks for the Web, is critical for the provision of accessibility. This work 
forms the base for the virtual ramps. 



0 

ERIC 



4 



file://E:\MW2002\papers\nevile\nevile.html 



5/22/2003 



Where multiple transformations of the same resource are authored by 
the resource creator, and available to users regardless of their special 
needs, or access abilities, the creator of the resources is able to 
communicate directly with the user. Psychologically, as with the ramp 
into the building, the user has the sense of inclusion and an equal 
opportunity to participate. The technologies mentioned so far can be 
used to make available, in appropriate formats and modalities, what has 
been selected and created by the original resource creator. The point 
here is that it is not a matter of a creator producing one resource and 
leaving it to technicians to make alternatives for those with special 
needs, but rather a situation where the original creator should be 
encouraged to think ab initio of all the different formats and modalities 
and consider their design part of the main design process. 

Direct and Compatible Access 

There are two major forms of physical access to online resources 
(http://www.imsproject.org/accessibility/index.html) 

"A "directly accessible” product is designed so that a 
person with a disability can operate all on-screen controls 
and access the content without relying on the aid of an AT 
[assistive technology]. For example, to be accessible to 
users with low-vision, directly accessible applications, 
software, or Web sites offer features to enlarge all controls 
and on-screen text and are designed with high contrast 
colors or provide features that allow users to choose 
appropriate colors. To be accessible to blind users, a 
directly accessible product should have a keyboard 
interface with audio output." 

A directly accessible Web resource, with a suitable keyboard interface 
will provide access for many users who are blind, those with physical 
disabilities and many others who have a temporary disability. Audio 
output that announces the presence and status of on-screen controls and 
conveys the atmosphere of the application, software, or Web site assists 
those with vision disabilities but also the illiterate and the foreign 
language speakers. A single key method for scanning through choices in 
the application or software provides access for users dependent on a 
single switch for input or who are busy using their hands for some other 
purpose (e.g. knitting or driving). 

A "compatibly accessible" application, software, or Web site is designed 
with AT in mind. This level of access assumes the user has a preferred 
AT package installed and is relatively competent and comfortable with it. 
A compatibly accessible product is designed with "hooks" to facilitate 
ease of use with a screen reader, screen magnifier, or alternative input 
devices such as adapted keyboards or single switches. These hooks can 
be implemented by developers . “... Exposing the system cursor, using 
standard controls and fonts, and following the operating system's human 
interface guidelines can help make a product compatibly accessible." 

Direct and compatible access offers different advantages to different 
stakeholders in the Web context. 

Directly accessible on-line resources have as advantages: 



O 

ERIC 



file ://E :\MW2002\papers\nevile\nev ile.html 



5 



5/22/2003 



• no requirement for expensive assistive technologies, cutting costs 

• reduction of technical complexity 

• the opportunity for users to operate any computers anywhere 

• direct and designed communication between the creative author 
and the user, not an AT acting as intermediary, and 

• single resources that are suitable for a range of special needs 
(one size fits all). 

Compatibly accessible on-line resources offer: 

• consistency of operation across different activities for the user 

• lower content development costs 

• system-based functionality e.g. an AT package provides text-to- 
speech capability 

• possibly the only access means for some users e.g. Braille, anda 
single set of programming techniques to be used by the developer 
for all ATs. 

Directly compatible resources allow all users to engage with them 
‘equally 1 in the same sense as the ramp into the museum building gives 
access to all. The experience may be different, because the ability to 
participate may be different, but everyone has the opportunity to 
participate in the same activity. 

The National Center for Accessible Media (http://ncam.wgbh.org/) has 
developed a DVD that shows how this can be done with interactive 
materials that have been made directly accessible for people with a 
range of disabilities. 

Direct access is available when users are provided with transformations 
of content that suit their access devices. 

Imagine an interactive multimedia product that offers a virtual tour of a 
small area containing some significant rock art paintings in northern 
Australia. Such a multimedia product would probably contain, in various 
combinations, text, images, animations, video, sound files, and 
interactive applications. 

Blind persons will not be able to see either the images or the controls to 
interact with the resources. They will need keyboard replacements for the 
mouse, for text that describes all images and imagery, and Braille or 
voice transformations of all text, captions to accompany sound files 
where these are initially accompanied by images or text, and so on. Deaf 
persons will be grateful for images and video but possibly not find text 
easy to read, and may need signing, and this may need to be in their 
language (e.g. US, or UK standards). A person with cognitive disabilities 
may need more literal text than others who are not confused by 
metaphoric representations. Braille readers may need extra time in which 
to make choices because their transformations are delivered more 
slowly. And so on. 

All of these requirements can be accommodated simultaneously by the 
creation of composite objects from which the user can choose those 
required. 

An example of a situation when direct access might not be preferred over 
compatible access is when users of a speech interface are required to 




6 



5/22/2003 



learn to use the speech interface associated with the resource instead of 
being able to rely on their own, and operate with familiar, but compatible 
access. For blind people who are using a computer every day, it is 
important to have access to a number of different kinds of software: e- 
mail, word processing, Web browsing, system tasks, and so on. To deal 
with this, various systems are available to provide something like an 
"audio desktop", as familiar to its users as other people are with a visual 
desktop metaphor of windows placed like overlapping pieces of paper on 
the screen. For such blind users, it is an interference (sometimes quite 
literally, stopping their everyday software from working) to have to learn a 
specially designed system for a unique task when they are used to 
similar tasks using a familiar interface. 

If multiple modalities are available to increase the range of opportunities 
for direct access, four classes of users may benefit although they would 
not normally have sought such alternatives. These include users who: 

• do not know of their 'disabilities’ 

• do not consider them worthy of concern 

• do not know what to do about them or 

• do not know how to, or cannot afford to get assistance. 

In addition, as has been noted above, it is not always possible to provide 
directly accessible transformations of all content so that all users may 
participate directly. 

If a range of resource sub-elements has been developed, so that the 
users are free to choose among them, in many cases a user with a 
compatible device will choose to use that in combination with a directly 
accessible sub-element. In other words, direct access is compatible with 
compatible access as well-designed direct access sub-elements can be 
selected by all users, including those who may need to use ATs. 

Alternative and Equivalent Access 

In practice, however, it may be quite difficult to provide all users with the 
same resource and achieve the same outcomes. In this sense, it is not 
the technical difficulties associated with the task but rather the potential 
to support, or destroy, the original intention of the resource that may be 
in question. The problem of what to provide for users is not new: in the 
museum context it has been dealt with extensively as the problem of how 
to design a good exhibition. An expression often used to describe the 
quality of good applications that make them useful and learnable to the 
most users is "low threshold and high ceiling”. This means that for users 
there is a minimal entry level, in terms of technological expertise and 
domain understanding, and yet the same application can work well for a 
highly accomplished and knowledgeable person who has strong 
technical skills. 

In the virtual museum context, the question is what will provide a virtual 
visitor with the richest experience, given that some visitors have special 
needs. The solution may be one that offers all users an equivalent 
experience, according to the modality in which they participate. In other 
words, the provision of resources in multiple modalities may not be 
sufficient to satisfy the original intention of the resource when the full 
range of users is taken into account. 




7 



5/22/2003 



Returning to the IMS definitions, (IMS, 2001) we find: 



When considering the accessibility of applications and 
software for learning, education, and training, it is important 
to understand the differences between two types of access: 
equivalent and alternative. 

Equivalent Access provides the learner with the same 
learning activity but it is mediated in a different modality. 

Providing a course textbook in Braille format, on audio 
tape, or in digital format are examples of equivalent 
accessibility. Alternative Access provides the learner with a 
different learning activity but one that is designed to 
achieve the same learning objectives. An example of 
alternative accessibility might be having a mobility-impaired 
student conduct science experiments in a virtual laboratory, 
where the same levels of dexterity, strength, and physical 
access are not required as in a physical laboratory. 

What is impressive, and often makes the production of alternative activity 
worthwhile, is that what was primarily considered as an alternative for 
people with disabilities, like the ramp, becomes an attraction for an 
unanticipated community of people. A simple example is provided by the 
"virtual microscope", developed by the Open University, UK (IMS, 2001) 
for disabled students but subsequently used by all students because of 
its ability to achieve key learning objectives more fully than the original 
exercise involving a real microscope. 

It is the cognitive aspect of accessibility that is under consideration here. 
If the virtual museum experience is designed to replace or be an 
alternative to a 'real' experience, it will be designed, presumably, to 
achieve the same effect in the participant’s mind. What is not clear, and 
not answerable, is whether the alternative experience is to provide equal 
access to the real experience or simply to the virtual experience. Either 
way, and this will depend upon the circumstances, this will not be easily 
solved. 

Cognitive Equivalence 

Many years ago, the authors both worked with computer controlled robot 
'turtles' - on screen and off. For a substantial time, teachers saw the 
Logo 'turtle' as needing to be explained to children in the real world 
(using a physical object) so they could make sense of the virtual turtle - a 
triangle of pixels on the screen. In fact, children had no trouble at all 
identifying with the 'turtle' triangle and also relating to the physical (toy) 
turtle. There was nothing to suggest that the children did not see these 
as two separate objects, alternate, and in many ways equivalent, or that 
they needed to relate to a real turtle in order to be able to relate to a 
moving image. This thinking led one author through a series of 
investigations of screen experiences, ultimately concluding that there 
was nothing ’virtual’ about screen objects. In some cases, the virtual 
object had characteristics that were not possible for a physical object, 
and so could be used to discover 'artificially', concepts that could not be 
accessed as easily in the real world. 

The most effective use of this artificiality seemed to occur when the 
virtual or simulated object was 'broken' in significant respects. In the case 
of the turtle, the screen version did not have to contend with gravity, and 



O 

ERIC 



file://E:\MW2002\papers\nevile\nevile.html 



3 



5/22/2003 



could assert its position in co-ordinates. These two features alone made 
it a most suitable object for programming in a gravity investigation 
exercise. In the process of attributing gravity to the world of the turtle, 
children were able to discover important facts about gravity such as that 
it exerted a constant downwards effect on objects, and that this was not 
altered by the object's horizontal motion although it changed the path of 
the object traveling horizontally. 

There was 'reality' in the children's minds of equal significance, no matter 
that it was inspired by a real (physical) or virtual (electronic) object. 

If the aim of a museum exhibition is to provide visitors with opportunities 
to use the exhibition to learn, become more knowledgeable, or whatever 
it's called, it seems that there is the potential for alternative activities, 
particularly when supported by computation, to achieve the same goal as 
the physical exhibition. When considering what alternatives to make 
available for users with special needs who are accessing a virtual 
exhibition, the author has the task of deciding what is appropriate to 
people who have access to only some modalities in which resources can 
be provided. The authors consider this similar to the familiar task of 
designing for work with different materials in the real world, and that 
including the range of modalities extends, rather than alters, the 
designer's work. 

Creating Alternative Experiences 

In the end, equivalence is something that is a matter of judgment. The 
perceptions of authors about what they are trying to convey, and the 
perceptions of readers (in the broad sense) of what the authors were 
trying to convey, are not necessarily the same. An equivalent or an 
alternative can be said to have been a "good" one when readers who 
used different alternatives come away with the same impressions of what 
they are being shown. 

This is a difficult but mostly soluble problem in a training context where 
there are specific desired outcomes and measurable descriptions of what 
the reader should be able to demonstrate having accomplished. But in 
the more open-ended context of an educational experience, or a 
museum experience, providing a resource that can be interpreted in 
different ways is more complicated. 

A "minimal equivalence" might be achieved if it is possible for some 
primary message to be received from any of the available alternatives. 
For example, a short cartoon like the following might be perceived as 
conveying the information that text without illustrations does not 
communicate as well as illustrated text. On the other hand, a "more 
complete equivalence" could convey something more. In fact, any 
selection of an alternative will convey a style. Consider the difference 
between: 

"Supplement text with non-text content." 



and 



"Some people can't read writing easily, so add images, 
sounds, movies and so on to help them understand your 
message." 




9 



5/22/2003 



and 



"This is a cartoon. On the left is a person looking in 
confusion at a poster of text. On the right the text has had 
images added to explain it, and "the light has dawned" - the 
person now understands the poster. The left hand panel 
has been crossed out indicating it is not the right approach, 
and the right hand panel has a tick indicating that it is a 
good approach." 



and 




Figure 1: a cartoon http://www.w3.org/2001/08/mmcmn/34a.png 




In the work associated with development of artificial environments for 
learning, the community often refers to such environments as 
'microworlds'. One quality of good microworlds is that they satisfy the rule 
above of having a low threshold but nevertheless a high ceiling. As well, 
they provide rich opportunities for a range of users without necessarily 
being able to predict what users will bring to their interaction with the 
microworld or gain from it. Microworlds usually give control to the users, 
allowing them to choose what to do in the environment with the designer 
knowing that whatever is done, it is very likely that something of value 
will be gained. A physical equivalent of such a microworld might be a 
sandpit with water for a child. 

But one feature of microworlds is outstanding. While they are 
recognizable for these qualities once developed, it is often not that they 
have been easy to create, or even that their designers were able to apply 
a clear set of design practices in order to produce them. Many years of 
experience with microworlds suggests they are somewhat like other 
forms of art: not subject to prescription yet enormously rewarding and 
valuable. The authors believe this to be similar to the work of museum 
exhibition design, and feel confident that museums will embrace 
accessibility and demonstrate their expertise in a slightly more complex 
world with the usual high standards of success. 

Conclusion 



O 

ERIC 



BEST COPY AVAILABLE 



file://E:\MW2002\papers\nevile\nevile.html 



10 



5/22/2003 



Having considered the tools with which museums might work to build the 
virtual ramp, and the growing demonstration of talent within museums to 
create on-line resources of all kinds, the authors are optimistic that the 
museum community will be able to make a substantial contribution to the 
more general effort to make the Web a rich, exciting and educational 
environment for all. 

A young Aboriginal man recently spoke of his efforts to make sure the 
rock path he was building up to a rock painting site was appropriate for 
the site (Steffensen, 2000). We believe the ramps that give access to 
virtual visits to the Quinkan Rock Art of far north Australia can be just as 
inclusive and rewarding. 

References 

Steffensen, V, presentation (without published paper) at International 
Rock Art Conference, hosted by AURA, Alice Springs, Australia: June 
2000. 




11 



5/22/2003 




U.S. Department of Education 
Office of Educational Research and Improvement (OERI) 
National Library of Education (NLE) 
Educational Resources Information Center (ERIC) 




NOTICE 



Reproduction Basis 




This document is covered by a signed "Reproduction Release (Blanket)" 
form (on file within the ERIC system), encompassing all or classes of 
documents from its source organization and, therefore, does not require a 
"Specific Document" Release form. 



This document is Federally-funded, or carries its own permission to 
reproduce, or is otherwise in the public domain and, therefore, may be 
reproduced by ERIC without a signed Reproduction Release form (either 
"Specific Document" or "Blanket"). 




EFF-089 (1/2003) 



