PROJECT RED BOOK 


A/nl4#4 Ortnhpr?nnm 



inside this document 

JENNY RANDLES EXCLUSIVE! 
THE “MEXBOROUGH” UFO FOOTAGE 
SHEFFIELD UFOs 

And much more... 


£ 1:50 



















PRB 


YUFOS 


Vol 4 # 4. October 2000) 

CONTENTS 

1) EDITORIAL 

Dave Baker tries to explain the lack of interview 
this month 

2VTHE LGE OF UFOS the missing chapter 

Jenny Randles exlusivell! 

5) ONE FOR THE BIRDS... 

Sarah Crabtree investigates Sheffield UFOs 

7) MONSTER MISTAKE 

When is a sea monster carcasse not a sea 
monster carcasse? 

8) THE “MEXBOROUGH FOOTAGE” 

YUFOS examines exclusive UFO camcorder 
film 

12) FROM AROUND THE WORLD... 

Ghostly sightings linked to eye disease 

Wine a poor vintage 

Summer of Sasquatch 

Britain's plan to avoid asteroid armaggedon 

16) UFOS- THE KEY TURNING POINT (PT2) 

Bill Booker on vision, light and sound in UFO 
cases 


18) THE WANDJINA 

Bill Chalker on 


HAUNTED REALM website 
http://boggards2.friendDages.com 

UFOIN: www.ufoin.org.uk 


YORKSHIRE UFO SOCIETY 

224 BELLHOUSE ROAD 
FIRTH PARK 
SHEFFIELD 
SOUTH YORKSHIRE 
S5 6HT 
Tel (0114) 2497270 

e-mai: davbak@tc24.net 
website www.vufos.ic24.net 

Subscriptions: 
£12:00-12 issues (1 year) 
£7:00 - 6 issues (6 months) 
sample issue - £1:50 


Proiect Red Book is published each 

month by the Yorkshire UFO Society. 

Editor, Chairman & Hc-Who-Sneakcth- 

The-Most Da\ ? e Baker 

Web-master, Grouo-secretan and 

Chauffeur to the Editor, Chairman & He- 

Who-Soeaketh-Tbe-Most Richard Moss 

Thev-Who-Printcth-Thc-Issues- lan Gregory 

and Jonathan Slater. 

Cover Illustration- Ian Gregory 

Treasurer- Jacqui Baker 

Group Mascot- LiV Matthew 

Contributions: Dave Baker, Bill Booker, Bill 

Chalker, Sarah Crabtree , Jenny Randles, 
l.N.Ternet 

Research: John , Scott, Jeff, Gordon, Alan and 

Virgil Tracey. Oh, and Brains’. But not 
Parker! 

To re-print articles in this magazine please 

enquire at the above address- that means me, Dave. 
I'm sure to say ‘"yes”, but it is nice to ask first...and 
remember to give us a reference now, y'hear? 

The articles and views expressed in this magazine 
do not necessarily reflect the views ot the Editor, 
YUFOS members, or The Hood 

"Raise your hands and all your flippers! 


Vol. 4*4, October 2000 












































EDITORIAL 


PRB 


This month's issue of Project Red Book was to 
haw featured the usual and very popular “An 
Interview With...”, featuring as this month's 
guest f Gloria Dixon of BUFORA, UFO IN, 
Strange Daze magazine and sundry other 
ufological and paranormal ventures. However, 
with admirable skill and professionalism, I 
miscalculated the time left to publication, and 
arranged my interview with Gloria with only 
days to spare. Unfortunately for me, but even 
worse for Gloria, she had been stricken with 
ftu and was in no shape to effectively 
concentrate on my “interesting questions". 
The last thing you want to be talking about 
when blowing your nose every thirty seconds is 
ectosplasm and green alien slime... 

So here I was with a blank space in the PRB 
manuscript with nothing to fill it. A magazine 
as empty as one of Jeffrey Archer's alibis. 
What was I to do? Intennew myself? Feeling 
that questions such as “Why are you so 
great?" and “What's it like to be you?" 
wouldn't go down welt with popular 
readership, I considered leaving several pages 
blank and running with the headline “The wit 
and wisdom of Bernard Manning". However, 
sanity , good sense and looming subscription 
renewals won through and I rejected the idea 
and instead turned to a friend, colleague and 
real life-saver, Jenny Randles... 

With virtually no advance warning and no 
payment whatsoever, Jenny came through 
within a couple of hours and sa\>ed my 
bacon.... 

Jenny has just published a book in the USA 
that is likely never to appear in the UK except 
on import. Its part of a series called The Little 
Giant Encyclopaedia '. Over a dozen exist in 
the series and the publishers asked Jenny to 
write an LGE of UFOs. 

The format is a huge chunky book of pocket 
book size but 500 pages long. It retails in the 
USA at $9.95 (that's about £6) and is 
published by Sterling. 

In the final edit earlier this year it was decided 
that Jenny had to lose one whole chapter, 
conceived as a bit of fun (so the most 
expendable when the publishers needed to lose 
a few thousand words). It was a sort of UFO 
book of world records. 


It is this ‘missing chapter', which Jenny kindly 
sent me to include in Project Red Book. It's an 
exclusive, has not appeared anywhere else and 
isn 7 in the final 'Little Giant Encyclopaedia of 
UFOs f that was published in the US this 
summer. 

Being serious for a moment, I am particularly 
touched by Jenny's generosity, especially in 
light of a number of cruel and spiteful attacks 
a number of small-minded individuals have 
directed towards Jenny on various UFO 
discussion lists. For example, accusations that 
Jenny is “in this business for the money", that 
she keeps information to herself and that she is 
a ‘debunker' are as ridiculous as they are 
hurtful - and plainly untrue. I don 7 think that 
there is anyone who has helped more fledgling 
ufologists - myself included- on their feet than 
Jenny has, with nothing in it for herself than to 
pass on her experience and knowledge. 
Consider the lecture she ga\>e for YUFOS last 
year. Here is a person is as witling to stand 
and talk before 30 people in the spare room of 
a pub as she is willing to travel to the USL4 
and lecture at the MUFON symposium before 
hundreds. 

We are truly honoured to be able to present 
this, and we are grateful to Jenny for helping 
out at such short notice. Thanks immensely 
Jenny. 

Oh, and get well soon Gloria... 

DAVE BAKER 


1 

Vol. 4,n 4, October 2000 









PRB 


THE “LITTLE GIANT ENCYCLOPEAEDIA OF 
UFOs” - THE LOST CHAPTER 

By Jenny Randles 
Part Five 


UFO World Records 


Have you ever wondered where the most 
UFOs have been seen, or what the largest and 
smallest crop circle on record might be? Here, 
in this exclusive UFO World Records section 
is the answer to all those questions you may 
have asked, never wanted to ask or simply 
never thought of! By the next edition of this 
book who knows how many of them will have 
been broken as they are all reported as they 
stand in 1999, to the best of my data gathering 
ability. Of course if you know differently... 


The World's First 


The first UFO. 

If cave paintings in the Pyrenees are true 
descriptions of UFOs and aliens, as some 
believe, then they describe a sighting in 
northern Spain around 12,000 BC. More 
certain are reports from the reign of Thutmose 
III that a 'fiery disc' was seen in the sky above 
Egypt circa 1500 BC. 

The first crop circle^ 

Was recorded in folk records at Assen, 
Holland in 1590, where it is described as 
mysteriously flattened crop. In August 1678 a 
Hertfordshire field was 'mowed' into circles by 
what was then termed 'the devil' and a woodcut 
survives showing a picture of the swirled 
fields. 

The first alien contact. 

At St Teath, Cornwall, in 1645 a girl saw 
strange small beings in her garden and was 
taken by them to a beautiful alien land. 
She thought they were fairies. 


The first alien abduction. 

In Song-Zi Xian, China on 8 May 1880 farmer 
Ju Tan encountered a glowing UFO, began to 
float , was paralysed and lost consciousness. 
He came to with a period of missing time 300 
miles away on a mountain top without recall of 
how he got there. 

The first UFO photo. 

On 12 August 1883 at Zacatecas, Mexico. A 
spindly UFO photographed by an astronomer 
against the sun. 

The first alien theory. 

The first witness to consider that the UFO and 
entities he saw were of alien origin was at 
Lodi, California on 25 November 1896. The 
hairless, large eyed beings were believed to be 
martians. 

The first government study. 

The first known government study into UFOs 
occurred in October 1912 when Admiralty 
minister Winston Churchill debated 
sightings of flying airships in the British 
parliament and warned that they might be 
hostile. A secret study resulted in the first 
cover up. 

The first alien baby. 

In 1950 at a farm in Anthony, Kansas, a young 
couple observed a UFO and an entity 
'materialised' in their bedroom. They were 
informed that a girl would be bom as a gift to 
educate mankind. This girl, Donna Butts, 
arrived and went on to have contacts and 
abductions of her own. 


2 

Vol. 4, *4, October 2000 








PRB 


The first alien to claim conception through a 
human abductee, used Brazilian farmer 
Antonio Villas Boas as the father in October 
1957. 

The first human woman to conceive an alleged 
hybrid human/alien DNA baby was Cynthia 
Appleton, from Birmingham, England, told in 
September 1958 and conceiving in 
May 1959 as predicted. 


The World's Smallest 


The smallest crop circle. 

Formed in the Mallee wheat belt of Victoria, 
Australia, in December 1989. They were under 
two feet in diameter. 

The smallest UFO. 

In 1978 a witness from London described how 
when working as a factoiy night watchman a 
tiny glowing light about the size of a butterfly 
entered the building and was pursued by the 
factory cat as it moved purposefully about the 
room inspecting the content. 

The smallest alien. 

At Fencehouses, County Durham two women 
were placed into a 'time suspension' by a 
landed UFO and several entities with long 
blond, near white hair. The beings were only 
about one foot tall. 


The World's Largest... 


The largest crop circle. 

At Kings Bromley, Staffordshire in June 1989 
circle and arc patterns filled an entire field 
some 300 feet in diameter. 

The largest UFO. 

In November 1989 a UFO shaped like a 
triangle and described as 'the size of a football 
field' (about five times that of a jumbo jet) was 
reported. It is thought possible this was, in fact, 
several smaller objects (possibly a mid air 
refuelling exercise) flying in formation. A 
possibly much larger object was seen on 17 


November 1986 when the crew of a Japanese 
Airlines Boeing 747 encountered something 
over Alaska on a trans-polar flight. This was 
briefly recorded by weather radar and shaped 
like a walnut was said by the pilot to be 'twice 
the size of an aircraft carrier' according to the 
radar image. 

The largest alien. 

A giant entity almost 12 feet tall was allegedly 
seen in a park at Voronezh, Russia in October 
1989. 


The Worlds Longest 


The longest running UFO group. 

Is the American Flying Saucer Bureau, 
founded 1952. Its US parent folded within a 
few years but its British branch in Bristol 
remained active in 1999. 

The longest running UFO journal. 

Is FSR (Flying Saucer Review) - founded 
1955, still going strong. 

The longest sighting. 

On November 2/3 1957 a glowing egg shape 
made a circular tour of the Levellend, Texas 
area, moved a little west across the New 
Mexico border and was seen by dozens of 
witnesses across a four hour period. Most UFO 
sightings are far more transient and last at most 
a few minutes. 

The longest abduction. 

Snowflake, Arizona, forester Travis Walton 
disappeared for five days after being struck by 
a light-beam emitted by a UFO. His 
colleagues were at first suspected of murder 
until he returned, describing his trip to a 
strange room with egg headed aliens. The 
record is equalled by a Chilean Corporal taking 
part in a training exercise up a mountain near 
Putre on 25 April 1977. His men saw him walk 
into a violet glow to return 15 minutes later 
with a heavy beard growth and his watch 
showing that five days had apparently passed 
by in his time frame. 


3 

VoL 4, *4, October 2000 













PRB 


The longest space ride. 

Between 1954 and 1963 South African woman 
Elizabeth Klarer went on numerous space rides 
with her friendly visitor. On the last occasion, 
she claims, he took her on a journey to his 
home world in the Proxima Centauri system, 
where she gave birth to their child. The flight 
there and back took four months. 


The World's Most Frequent... 


Most frequent IFO. 

Aircraft of one type or another trigger over 
60% of all misreported UFOs. 

Most frequent time of day for a 
sighting. 

Is between 10 pm and 3 am, with the period 2 
am to 3 am being the greatest per available 
number of witnesses. 

Most frequent day of the week. 

Several studies have shown a 'Wednesday' 
effect, but it is believed to be a statistical quirk. 
In fact, most sightings occur, unsurprisingly, at 
weekends when there is more free time. 

Most frequent age to be abducted. 

Over 80% of alien contact witnesses are 
between the ages of 19 and 29. Witnesses 
above 40 are relatively rare. The real danger 
ages are 23 - 27. 

Most frequent occupation for a 
witness. 

Police officers generate most witnesses, 
possibly as they are out in the early hours of 
night. Nurses, musicians and artists are the 
most commonly abducted people. 


The World 1 s Greatest 

Greatest number of witnesses to a 
sighting. 

In 1958 a large percentage of the 
50,000 crowd at a Sunderland FC soccer match 


are thought to have witnessed a UFO passing 
above Roker Park. 

Greatest number of people to film a 
UFO. 

During the Mexico City eclipse in 1991 it is 
known that thousands observed and at least 20 
independently filmed a silver light seen in the 
now darkened sky. 

Greatest number to be abducted. 

Several cases exist where five people 
travelling together were simultaneously 
abducted (eg a family at Aveley, 
Essex in October 1974). In the Dandenong 
Mountains case from Australia on 8 August 
1993 six people in three unrelated groups 
travelling in three separate vehicles are 
believed to have witnessed the same landed 
UFO and aliens and experienced an abduction. 

Greatest number of crop circles. 

Over 500 were recorded in the most active 
year, 1990. The most visited site is near Alton 
Bames, Wiltshire, where circles have appeared 
most years in a 20 year spell. The most in one 
field is up to 50 - many small - in a field at 
Mallee, Australia, 1989. 

Greatest UFO wave recorded. 

Was on the eastern seaboard of the USA in 
summer 1952, centring on Washington DC. 
Over 900 cases were recorded in a three 
month spell. 


Greatest UFO window area. 

Several candidates vie for this title of 
concentrated activity in a narrow area (up to 25 
miles by 25 miles). Top contenders are 
Hessdalen, Norway (up to 500 cases), the Min 
Min lights of Queensland, Australia (over 1000 
documented cases), the Marfa, Texas light 
(as many as 1500 alleged incidents). But the 
record to date is held by the 
Pennine Hills window (moorland between 
Sheffield/Manchester/Leeds) in the UK 
where reports date back 400 years and total 
over 2000. 


4 

VoL 4, *4, October 2000 











PRB 


ONE FOR THE BIRDS... 

The following two stories appeared in The Sheffield Star and show how sometimes UFO 

reports can be followed up, and even sojved-J_ ulp/) - in a short time even by -digger ulp!) 

members ofthe public! Thanks go to Sarah Crabtree for germission to use her work . (Ed} 


POSSIBLE UFO SIGHTING 
SPARKS APPEAL FOR MORE 
WITNESSES 

DID YOU SEE WHAT I SAW? by Sarah 
Crabtree 

(The Star , Thursday September 21, 2000) 

A Sheffield man who saw what could be a 
UFO hovering above the city has appealed to 
Star readers who may have seen it to get in 
touch. 

Alan Biggs and his 13 year old son Ashley saw 
up to 25 brilliant white globules of light, which 
circled the evening sky before disappearing 
into the distance. 

Alan, a freelance sports reporter was so 
intrigued that he telephoned Woodseats police 
and, bizarrely, spoke to an officer who took a 
similar call last year. 

Pc Geoff Martin confirmed Alan's sighting was 
consistent with that of a man on his way to 
work a year ago. 

Alan, of Old Hay Close, Dore, was looking out 
of his upstairs window on Monday evening 
when his attention was drawn to a string of 
bright lights. 

"I was looking out over Holmesfield and 
Millthorpe, just over the border into 
Derbyshire", said Alan, 45. 

"The lights were in the middle-distance, maybe 
2,000 feet up, very bright, almost white, and in 
a line of about three or four which moved 
around 

"At first I thought maybe it was several 
aeroplanes, but the night was still light enough 
that I would have been able to see the shape of 
an aircraft." 

As Alan watched, more lights appeared, until 
there was a total of between 20 and 25. 


"They came from almost nowhere," he said. 
"Then, after about seven minutes, they 
disappeared." 

Sheffield and Manchester airports said the 
lights were nothing to do with them. Alan 
added, "My son came upstairs and saw them 
too. It's just a pity I didn't have a full house at 
the time." 


UFO ALERT - DID ALIENS FLY 
OVER SOUTH YORKSHIRE, OR 
WERE THEY PIGEONS 
REFLECTED IN THE SUN? 

(The Star , Saturday September 30, 2000) 

When Alan Biggs saw a constellation of 
darling bright lights circling the sky close to 
his Sheffield home last week, he immediately 
contacted the Star. 

Intrigued by the sight, which even the police 
and air traffic controllers could not explain, he 
appealed to other readers to get in touch if they 
had see it too - and dozens had. 

Could extra-terrestrial life be hovering in the 
skies above Sheffield? Or might the 
explanation be nothing more sinister than...a 
flock of humble pigeons? 

Star reporter Sarah Crabtree took up her 
telescope and set off to investigate... 

A string of brilliant white lights hovering in 
the skies over Sheffield? A supernatural 
spectacle which disappeared almost as quickly 
as it appeared? 

Could alien life forms be visiting South 
Yorkshire? 

The Star reported the possible UFO sighting 
last week, after reader Alan Biggs witnessed 
up to 25 white globules of light circling the sky 
close to his home in Old Hay Close, Dore. 


5 

Vol. 4, *4, October 2000 












PRB 


Both Alan, aged 45, and his 13-year-old son 
Ashley watched as the lights moved, quivered, 
and after seven minutes disappeared into the 
sunset. 

Dozens of Star readers telephoned and emailed 
to say they, too, had witnessed strange lights in 
the sky at 6.45 pm on Monday, September 18. 

Some were convinced the vision was, literally, 
out of this world Doreen Helliwell, aged 75, 
from Dronfield Woodhouse, was looking out 
towards Barlow at the same time on the same 
night. 

"What I saw wasn't a round ball but vertical 
strips, in all different colours," said Doreen. 
"One was a bright frightening red, then pinks, 
greens, golds, and white. They were much 
more definite stripes than a rainbow. I couldn't 
believe what I had seen. To me it was very 
awesome." 

And Star Trek fan John Rodgers, 63, from 
Whiteways Road in Grimethorpe said: 
"Twelve months ago I saw the same lights over 
Barnsley through the cloud: two or three 
dozen silver balls just hanging there. I though 
they were UFOs, maybe smaller craft from a 
bigger one way out of sight. I'm certain they 
were not of this earth." 

But most decided the dazzling spectacle was 
nothing more than...pigeons! 

Pensioner Tony Reynolds said: "The sight 
certainly shook us rigid at first, but then they 
saw that they were birds." 

And Deborah Jones saw the same thing while 
driving along Church Street in Dore. "I am 99 
percent certain they were birds," she said. 

UFO expert Dave Baker of the Yorkshire UFO 
Society said: "A flock of birds is a very 
possible explanation as they can reflect 
sunlight off their white under-bellies. 

"Even pigeons can appear like balls of brilliant 
light if they catch the sun on their feathers. It's 
a very plausible explanation, especially in the 
countrysideand at this time year when birds are 
preparing to migrate." 

But Alan Biggs, a freelance sports reporter 
who covers Sheffield Wednesday matches, 
remains unconvinced "Maybe I have watched 
too much of the Owls to recognise a pigeon 
when I see one!" he said 


"It sounds like a bird-brained explanation to 
me - but then that's what it's made me look if 
all these people are right!" 

"It actuallly sounds more unbelievable an 
explanation than if the lights were alien 
spacecraft - which I never said they were!" 

♦Totley pensioner Tony Reynolds of Totley 
Grange Close, was looking out over 
Holmesfield at the same time as Alan Biggs. 
He said: "I saw these lights travelling fairly 
quickly across the sky, then they all turned, 
came back, and went off again. They were 
very bright gloubles of light, a really fiery 
gold At first they were unrecognisable, but 
then we saw they were pigeons because the 
sun caught on their wings." 

♦David Sergeant, 62, of Ecclesall Road South, 
saw the same. "They were luminous dots in the 
distance and a lovely golden colour. They were 
too far away to see their wings flapping, but I 
have no doubt in my mind they were pigeons." 

♦Deborah Jones saw bright lights in the 
distance towards Holmesfield. She said: "My 
instant reaction was 'Finally, the moment I 
have been waiting for' as I firmly believe in 
intelligent life in space. But when I stopped at 
a junction I realised it was sunlight striking a 
flock of birds. Each time another bird crossed 
the sun's path they became illuminated" 

♦Jill Birley of Haggstones Road Oughtibridge, 
noticed bright lights at exactly the same time. 
"There were three or four sets of 15 bright 
lights in groups. It's a mystery to me but my 
husband thinks they were birds." 

♦Fourteen year old Marc Denton saw the same 
thing a fortnight earlier. "These brilliant lights 
disappeared and reappeared from nowhere. 
When I saw them there were only two moving 
around each other." 


6 

Vol. 4, Ml July 2000 









PRB 


MONSTER MISTAKE 

By Dave Baker 


MYSTERY ANIMAL WASHED UP ON 
BEACH 

(Yahoo! Australia & NZ News Top Stories 
Tuesday 12 September) 

Conservation officers in the north-west of 
Western Australia are baffled with the 
discovery of a strange mammal. 

The four-and-half metre creature is thought to 
be a species of whale, but has been described 
as having a dolphin-like appearance with big 
tusks. 

It was washed up on a beach at Point Maud 
near Coral Bay, south of Exmouth last week. 
Marine conservation officer at Exmouth, 
Caroline Williams, says the mammal's head 
will be studied by museum authorities in Perth. 

"It's the most weird looking whale I've ever 
seen - picture a very large nose dolphin, so it's 
got the long snout, but then rather than having 
rows of sharp teeth it's got just two teeth in the 
lower jaw, one on either side and they're 
actually on the outside of the body,” she said 
"So 1 guess they're really sort of more tusks, 
like you'd have elephant tusks." 


I was all ready to run the story in this month’s 
issue of PRB as an item in the From Around 
The World column. It was only by chance 
however, that I caught a follow-up story on a 
newsgroup that blew the myth and the mystery 
out of the water... pun intended. 


RARE WHALE FOUND ON BEACH 

PERTH 

Wednesday 13 September 2000 
Found: a rare dense-beaked whale. 

A bizarre mammal that washed ashore on a 
Western Australian beach has been 
identified by marine experts as the rare dense- 
beaked whale. 

The four-metre mammal, which has a dolphin 
beak and a pair of small tusk-like teeth jutting 
out of its bottom jaw, was found stranded alive 
in shallow water by a German tourist on Friday 


at Point Maud north of Carnarvon. It died 
soon after. Only three or four have been 
recorded in Australia. 

"The best word to describe it is ugly," said 
Carolyn Williams, an officer with the 
Department of Conservation and Land 
Management. 

The department's principal zoologist, Nick 
Gales, said: "They are not very 
sociable animals and because they live a long 
way offshore, off the edge of 
the continental shelf and beyond, we hardly 
ever see them and don't know much about 
them." 

It is not known if the dense beak is used to 
help them dive or whether males use it for 
fighting or show. 

The whale produces the most dense bone of 
any vertebrate, its beak about three times 
denser than human bone. 


This affair is interesting in that here we have a 
perfect crypto-zoological mystery that is 
reported and then solved only a day later. 

We also had “experts”- on whose shoulders the 
authenticity of such a case stands, “baffled”. 

Well, so much for the ‘experts’... 

It is of course in this manner that myths are 
made. So many stories that appear in the news, 
the media, on Internet discussion boards and 
even in magazines devoted to unusual 
phenomena, are rarely followed up- and that 
can include PRB. (Fortean Times is one 
exception, which runs a regular ‘catch-up’ 
column.) 

This may be because there is no follow up; the 
investigation grinds to a halt and the file 
remains ‘open’, either through reporter apathy 
or because no more information becomes 
available, every line of investigation having 
been genuinely exhausted. 

But it also can be that an explanation has been 
found and the mystery solved... but is not as 
good a story! 


7 

Vol. 4, HI July 2000 










PRB 

THE ‘MEXBOROUGH’ FOOTAGE 

Report by Dave Baker 


After an appearance by myself in the Sheffield 
Star 1 on Friday ...September promoting the 
Yorkshire UFO Society, I received a call from 
a young man who claimed that he had 
camcorder footage of UFOs which he had 
taken a year ago. 

As it turned out the witness, Michael N, lives 
within walking distance of YUFOS Towers 
and the following day myself and fellow 
YUFOS member Jonathan Slater went out to 
interview Michael and view the footage. 


BACKGROUND 


After watching this object for a few moments, 
he ran into the house and grabbed his 
camcorder, and proceeded to film the object. 

Throughout the video, the object moves further 
away until Michael thought it was about a mile 
distant, (“about the size of a match-head”) 
Then another object, apparently identical to the 
first, appeared “out of thin air” and “for a few 
moments moved up towards the first object. 
This first object then moved away to the left, 
and the ‘new’ object moved away to the right.” 

The objects then faded into the distance and 
Michael stopped filming. 


The video was taken on Saturday, 13 th March 
1999, at around 4:00 - 4:30pm. Michael is sure 
of this time because his wife was watching the 
horse-racing on TV at the time; “And 
winning...as she usually does!” 

The weather was bright, warm and dry with 
very little wind the sky heavy with clouds. 

At the time, Michael and his wife Denise were 
living in a second floor flat on Park Road in 
Mexborough. The area is mostly residential, 
with a number of fielded areas around It is in 
fact one of these fielded areas which the 
‘UFOs’ appear to fly over - a potentially 
important point. 

Michael says in his report, “I was standing on 
the back balcony (of our flat) and to my left I 
saw a black object moving in a straight line 
and moving slowly.” 

The object appeared elliptical: “I would say it 
was at least 3-4 feet long and moving 20-30 
mph in a straight line, from the South or 
South-west, to the North or North-east, 
towards Malton and Doncaster.” Michael said 


When he first saw the object it appeared to be 
about l A mile away and seemed to be the size 
of a pea at arm’s length. 


AFTERWARDS 

Michael claims that he is “a complete 
disbeliever in UFOs”, but he did admit later 
that he does like to watch programmes about 
the subject, such as the US series SIGHTINGS 
on Yorkshire Cable TV. He is a keen 
astronomer however, and rejects outlandish 
theories such as the ETH. He is also somewhat 
of an ornithologist, and on a holiday a few 
days later he videoed a flock of birds which he 
thought were of a similar distance away as the 
UFOs to compare them. I have seen this 
footage and there are marked differences, but 
this could be due to a mistake in the 
comparative distances, or the size of the birds 
themselves. More about this later. 

Thoroughly perplexed by the experience, and 
keen to find out if anyone else had seen the 
objects, Michael contacted the South Yorkshire 
Times about the sighting. 

Michael told me that an article appeared in the 
newspaper around a week later, in which he 
asked to remain anonymous mainly due to his 
association with a local astronomy society. 
However, the South Yorkshire Times did 
receive a number of calls from readers who 
had seen something similar. One man. who the 
paper put into contact with Michael, claimed to 
have seen something very similar the same day 
in Conisborough. Michael made a copy of his 
video for this man, who said he was “a plane 
spotter for the RAF’. Unfortunately though. 


1 Complete with picture of me holding my 
binoculars- Original photo-journalist idea #127/8 

8 

Vol. 4, *4, October 2000 








PRB 


this ‘expert’ could not identify either the UFO 
he had witnessed himself, or the objects in 
Michael’s video footage. Over a year later, 
Michael does not still have the man’s 
telephone number. 

Michael did show his footage to friends and 
family, and was rewarded with a wide variety 
of possible explanations, ranging from 
balloons and aeroplanes to plastic bags and 
birds. None of these explanations seemed to fit 
the camcorder footage perfectly. 

And there the matter ended, as far as Michael 
was concerned. He was not aware of any local 
UFO groups who he felt he could entrust with 
the footage, and so the matter was forgotten 
until the article appeared in the Sheffield Star 
by which time Michael and Denise had moved 
to Sheffield. 


THE VIDEO FOOTAGE 

Michael was - quite rightly - none too keen to 
loan me the original video tape, but he did 
agree to make me a VHS copy, which he 
brought to me a couple of days later. Michael 
has also agreed that should further 
investigation be necessary, he would be willing 
to loan the original camcorder tape to YUFOS 
for full scientific analysis. 

Once I had my own VHS copy of the footage I 
was able to examine it at length and at my 
leisure. 

I watched the footage numerous times in 
various modes: slow-motion, freeze-frame and 
frame-by-frame - as well as in standard 
format. 

The video lasts just over 7 minutes. 

To begin with, the footage shows what appears 
to be a black, seemingly elliptical object, very 
visible against the clouds and the blue sky, 
moving slowly and I would say purposefully, 
in a straight line. 

It is impossible to judge size or speed from this 
kind of viewing, though at one point Michael 
does zoom out to show the ‘whole’ area, 
before zooming in on the object again. 

From this it is possible to see that in the final 
minutes of the footage the objects are very far 
away, so would have to be fairly large. 


While filming the first object, Michael 
comments that his only explanation is that the 
object is a black plastic bag blowing on the 
wind. 

However, watching the footage it is clear that 
the object’s shape remains too static, and it’s 
trajectory too straight and direct for something 
light and flaccid caught on the wind. There is 
no sign of fluttering, tumbling or looping or 
any sign that this is an inanimate object being 
blown around. 

The object simply moves away into the 
distance. A number of times small flocks of 
birds fly very close to the camcorder, and at 
one point a single bird passes the viewfinder 
further away. Although this bird does slightly 
resemble the object as it appeared when closest 
to the camera, it is obviously a bird, as the 
movement of it’s wings are clearly visible. 

About four minutes into the footage, another 
object apparently identical to the first appears 
below and to the right of the first object. On 
first glance it does seem to appear “out of thin 
ai f 9 as Michael claimed, but on using frame by 
frame analysis, it appears more likely that this 
second object comes into view through cloud, 
or merely the haze of bad visibility. 

This second object then rises up to a level with 
the original. Michael states on the video that 
“There’s two objects...and they’re stationary”, 
but I think it more likely that the objects are 
still moving, but away from the camera. 

After a few more seconds the objects fly or 
drift apart, and Michael has to pan the 
camcorder around to find each one. At this 
point the objects begin to fade in and out a 
little, until Michael loses them altogether. 


THE CAMCORDER 

The equipment used was a Canon UC 6000 
8mm analogue Camcorder, with 16.x optical 
zoom, and a maximum shutter speed of 1/1000 
of a second. 

Michael used manual focus during the video, 
and finished at full zoom. 

One thing which struck me about the 
camcorder footage even as I viewed it at 
Michael’s home was the lack of any titles, date 
or time. This suggested to me that the footage 
could have been taken at any time, and not 
necessarily when Michael claimed. 


9 

Vol. 4, *4, October 2000 








PRB 


I was also wondering at just how co-incidental 
it was that his camcorder was so close at hand. 
In my experience, anyone who is as orderly as 
Michael appeared to be usually keeps an 
expensive and fragile piece of equipment like a 
camcorder safely packed away. 

However, before I could question these points, 
Michael explained it quite matter-of-factly of 
his own volition. 

The previous day, he and Denise had been to 
York. As part of a meticulous filing system, 
Michael always uses the date/time/titles 
function on the camcorder. Earlier that day he 
had erased the titles “YORK” and the date and 
time in preparation for another day trip they 
were planning to make the next day. 
Consequently, the camcorder was at hand, and 
the video footage is free of any titles. T 

The complete camcorder tape is available, and 
the day-trip footage is on either side of the 
UFO footage as Michael explains. 


THE SOUTH YORKSHIRE TIMES 

One of the first things I did was to telephone 
the newspaper to confirm that the story had 
appeared when Michael told me that it had. 
This would also help to confirm the date of the 
event and the footage, considering that no 
titles, date or time were on the footage. 

Michael was completely forthcoming in this, 
and although he could not find the clipping 
from the newspaper (he and Denise had still 
not unpacked everything from their recent 
move to Sheffield), he was able to give me the 
name of the journalist who he had spoken to. 

I called the South Yorkshire Times and 
eventually was able to speak to Anne Story. 
The journalist had since retired, but helped out 
a couple of days a week to work on the 
occasional article. 

Anne remembered the case, and had seen the 
footage herself that she thought was “very 
strange”. She confirmed everything Michael 
had told me, and also put me in contact with 
another journalist who had worked on the case. 

Kevin Rogers had been working on an article 
about the infamous ‘Steven Pratt photograph’ 
when Michael’s video came to light. 


This was around the time that the photo had 
been declared “genuine” again by the Pratts, 
who has some years previously admitted the 
photo was hoaxed by painting saucer shapes on 
a sheet of glass. Apparently, they had only told 
everyone the photo was hoaxed because they 
were getting too much ridicule and hassle from 
neighbours and the press. Steven Pratt’s 
brother Kevin was proclaiming himself 
something of a ufologist, and had given a 
premonition that a major UFO event, such as 
an actual alien landing, was going to take place 
in Conisborogh later that year. 2 

Working on this colourful local story, Kevin 
was intrigued by Michael’s story, although he 
did not see the footage himself. He did cover a 
small number of UFO reports, which came to 
light as a result of the Pratt story, and again 
was able to co-overrate the details Michael had 
given me. 

Unfortunately, it appears that not a great deal 
of investigation was undertaken to identify the 
UFOs in Michael’s footage by contacting 
airports, RAF bases, meteorological offices 
etc. 


INITIAL IDEAS. 

YUFOS members Richard Moss and Jonathan 
Slater viewed the footage with me a day or so 
later. 

It is easier to say what the object is not, rather 
than what it is. It is nothing astronomical or 
meteorological, as could easily be the case 
with footage taken at night, and I doubt very 
much if the UFOs are aeroplanes or 
helicopters, kites, balloons, hang-gliders or 
various sundry objects caught on the wind. 

It is obvious that the UFOs are not dirt or dust 
on the camcorder lens. Michael can see the 
UFOs with his naked eye, and pans the camera 
to follow them. So we know that the UFOs - 
whatever they turn out to be- are actual objects 
actually there. 

Watching again on various formats, we noticed 
that the initial object’s shape does appear to 
momentarily change. What could be a wing is 
visible in a couple of frames, but this could 
also be distortion of the freeze-frame facility, 
such as colour-wash, or a ghosting effect. 


2 Nothing happened. Surprisingly. 

10 

Vol. 4, *4, October 2000 









PRB 


We considered that if it was a wing which is Bill Rose into the picture tp help with in-depth 

visible in the frames, why wouldn’t this computer analysis, 

movement be seen all of the time? We then 

realised that should the object be a bird of prey Bill has helped UFOIN out in the past with his 

such as a falcon or a hawk, it would only need excellent skills, and will hopefully bring the 

to occasionally flick it’s wings to stay aloft, case into sharper focus - pun intended 

actually gliding on the thermals and air 

currents. Although as previously stated it is PRB will keep you updated.... 

difficult to effectively judge distance and size, 

I do think it is safe to say that the objects are 
fairly large, consistent with Michael’s original 
estimation. 


This line of thinking was supported by 
UFOIN’s Andy Roberts following my posting 
of a brief overview of the case on the UFOIN 
discussion list. 

At this point Andy had not seen the footage so 
could only go by my description, but he did 
say: “If it's a big bird then a heron would be 
the most likely culprit. They are everywhere 
these days and can glide for ages without so 
much as a wing twitch. They also resemble 
pterodactyls to the peasant in the street, as the 
'pterodactyl' flap over Bradford about fifteen 
years ago proved.” 

Jenny Randles, on the UFOIN list had this to 

say: 

“Hard to comment without seeing the footage - 
although presumably a slow moving dark 
object should be checked against an airship in 
the distance. 

“With so many Sky Sports games - most of 
which use airships now - its always a 
possibility. I've seen them from trains up to 20 
miles away before realising they are heading 
for Wembley. At that range they look a bit like 
your video sounds.” 


WHAT NEXT? 

YUFOS intend to continue its investigation of 
the case, although the prime focus will be the 
analysis of the video footage itself. Ian 
Gregory is attempting to produce fc blow-up’ 
images from the video in order to better see the 
UFO, whatever it is. 

Andy Roberts and Dr. Dave Clarke have 
agreed to take a look at the footage and offer 
their opinion of it’s worth. If they agree with 
YUFOS that the Mexborough video warrants 
further investigation, we hope to bring expert 


IN THE NEXT ISSUE OF 

PROJECT RED 
BOOK 

“AN INTERVIEW WITH...” 

GLORIA DIXON 

(BUFORA, UFOIN and 
“Strange Daze ” magazine ) 


NEXT MEETING 

Tuesday, 14th November 2000 
7:00pm- 10:00 pm 

THE THREE CRANES 

Queen Street, 

Sheffield City Centre 


11 

Vol. 4, *4, October 2000 












_ PRB 

FROM AROUND THE WORLD...AND BEYOND!!! 

UFOs, conspiracies, fortean and paranormal events compiled by Dave Baker 


GHOSTLY SIGHTINGS LINKED TO 
EYE DISEASE 

(John von Radowitz, Science Correspondent , 
PA News ) 

Ghosts, night terrors and near-death 
experiences could be caused by a peculiar form 
of "blind-vision” often suffered by people who 
lose their sight, an expert claimed today. 

Dr Dominic Ffytche said individuals who go 
blind through eye disease, or have their eyes 
removed, often report a bewildering and 
frightening array of hallucinations. 

They include abstract patterns and shapes, but 
also disembodied faces and costumed figures. 

In 60% of cases, patients reported seeing 
’’grotesque” distorted faces with prominent 
eyes and teeth, said Dr Ffytche. 

Forty per cent saw figures in costumes, 
including people in Edwardian clothes and 
Napoleonic uniforms, as well as knights in 
armour. 

’’They often wear hats and helmets,” said Dr 
Ffytche, from the Institute of Psychiatry in 
London. 

Brain scans carried out while the patients were 
hallucinating showed activity in specialised 
regions of the visual cortex. 

Speaking at the British Association Festival of 
Science at Imperial College, London, Dr 
Ffytche suggested that sightings of ghosts and 
other supernatural experiences could have the 
same biological cause. 

The ’’old hag” experience that occurred when a 
person was half asleep and half awake was one 
example. 

’’You think a monster with a distorted face is in 
front of you,” said Dr Ffytche. Tm sure 
ghosts, fairies and witches all relate in some 
respect to these disembodied hallucinations. 

"Near-death experiences may also be related to 
activity in these specialised brain areas.” 


Idyllic landscapes and vortices, often 
associated with near-death experiences, were 
sometimes "seen” by blind people. 

Dr Ffytche pointed out that it was not always 
necessary to go blind to have these 
hallucinations. 

Strokes could trigger them off, as could having 
the eyes covered by patches for a sufficient 
length of time. The visions could also be 
summoned artificially, by electrical stimulation 
of the correct brain regions. 

"I could do it to you,” Dr Ffytche told an 
audience of journalists. 

The hallucinations were thought to be "release 
phenomena," said Dr Ffytche. He added: 
"When there's no information coming in, and 
the brain is idle, you get cells firing away to 
produce these images." 

People who were blind from birth did not 
suffer the visions. There was a particular cut¬ 
off point when the vision of sighted people 
deteriorated to a point where they started to 
hallucinate. 

The hallucinations could be very frequent. The 
patients undergoing the brain scan were only 
examined for five minutes at a time, yet 
hallucinated enough to make the study 
possible. 

’WINE' PROVES A POOR VINTAGE 

Archaeologists considered arranging a tasting 
session after finding what they thought was a 
300-year-old bottle of wine - only to discover 
it contained a rancid mixture of urine and 
pubic hairs. 

The bottle, found in the foundations of a 17th 
century Surrey house, contained almost half a 
pint of urine, pubic hairs, an eyelash and a 
handful of bent pins. They now believe it was 
used as a folk charm to ward off a witch's 
curse. 

The bottle was discovered by archaeologist 
David Williams, who jumped to the conclusion 
that it was Jacobean wine. 


12 

Vol. 4, #4, October 2000 












PRB 


"I managed to get a local vineyard interested 
and they arranged to open the bottle, test the 
contents and possibly organise a tasting," he 
said. 

"When the cork was pulled there was a rather 
alarming hiss of escaping gas. They could find 
no trace of alcohol - or indeed anything 
organic. I then poured the contents through a 
strainer and out fell all these pins and other bits 
and pieces." 

Witch bottles were made by people who 
believed their illness or misfortune, the death 
of family members or livestock, meant they 
had been cursed. 

The bottles were intended to turn the curse 
back on the witch as long as the bottle 
remained sealed. 

Alan Massey, a retired organic chemist from 
Loughborough University who carried out the 
analysis, said: "In this case the curse was 
intended to make the unfortunate object of it 
feel as if they were weeing with a bladder full 
of bent pins." 

The occupants of the demolished house, near 
Reigate Castle, have not been traced and the 
owner of the witch bottle remains a mystery. 


"SUMMER OF SASQUATCH" 
REVIVES LEGEND 

(Sally Suddock, September 15 ) 

It's becoming known as the "summer of 
Sasquatch," with UFO Digest reporting 
Thursday that more than 19 sightings of the 
ape-human-like animal have been 
reported from overseas to the West Coast and 
Eastern Seaboard in the U.S. 

UFO Digest’s Clyde Lewis, in a lengthy 
discussion of the legendaiy beast 
(ww.ufodigest.com), said, "it is time to 
demand that Bigfoot need not be associated 
with Elvis sightings and weird theories that 
sound like rejected plots from the "Six million 
dollar man." 

Too often, he says, science perceives Bigfoot 
(or Yeti, or Sasquatch, or Yowie, or other 
names) reports as "tall tales concocted by 
drunk hunters who mistake large bears for a 
more strange albeit odorous being that may or 
may not belong on this planet." 

Arguing that the body of evidence may be 
present to verify that Sasquatch is. 


indeed, real, Lewis says it's not unusual for 
animals believed to be nothing more than 
myths in ancient lore actually turn up to be 
categorized by scientists. 

"The difficulty in capturing an undeniable 
picture, video, or even hair or scat samples of 
the Bigfoot has caused a number of people to 
dismiss outright the possibility of such a 
creature existing. However eyewitness 

testimony continues to pour in and recently the 
sightings of such a creature have 

increased," said Lewis, adding that even 
President Teddy Roosevelt said he’d 

seen one. 

The most "notorious" evidence of Bigfoot's 
presence is the film shot in 1967 

by Roger Patterson and Robert Gimlin; a 
grainy image of Bigfoot climbing over 
a log in the forest is ubiquitous in Bigfoot 
research. Those who scoff at the notion that an 
8-foot, odiferous glowing-eyed animal could 
roam the Earth and not be captured have 
debunked the Patterson/Gimlin evidence as a 
hoax, but the film survives as documentation 
nonetheless. 

"In the year 2000 it seems that Bigfoot has 
once again decided to come out of hiding and 
many people are catching a glimpse at the 
fabled creature. What this means is uncertain; 
however, the testimony as of late is remarkable 
and deserves mention," Lewis notes. 

The first sighting of the New Millennium was 
in Wisconsin, reported by a man who saw a 
Bigfoot-like creature standing on the side of 
the road early in the morning. Then, in 
succession, came sightings in Oregon, 
Washington. Florida, Pennsylvania, and 
Australia, among those that have surfaced in 
the press. And China’s government issued 
restrictions earlier this year on hunters of the 
Yeti, seeking to protect the creature if it's ever 
found. 

Theories abound as to the beast’s origin-is it 
an advanced form of shy ape; an early form of 
the species that evolved into humanity; or 
even, perhaps, a visitor from another world in 
the universe? 

One of Amazoacom’s best sellers is a book by 
Jack Lapseritis that makes a case that 
Sasquatch is actually an alien species seeded 
on Earth to guide the human race. The Psychic 
Sasquatch is the result of 40 years of research 
Lapseritis has undertaken on the creature. 


13 

VoL 4, # 4, October 2000 










PRB 


In one case, he recounts the story of a woman 
reading on the porch of her cottage in 
Wisconsin in 1977, when an "invisible force” 
sent the book out of her hands. At the edge of 
the forest stood the Sasquatch. which over time 
continued to have telepathic discussions with 
her. 

For those who have described the creature as 
glowing-eyed, fierce and frightening, Psychic 
Sasquatch paints a radically different, benign 
portrait of it. 

He relates the Bigfoot to extraterrestrials and 
says they cannot be found because they can 
exist in a different dimension. He describes 
them as "gentle creatures” that consider 
themselves to be the first people to populate 
Earth—brought here millions of years ago by 
ETs (said to be the Star People). 

"The Sasquatch say that they are transported to 
new regions of wilderness whenever hostile 
humans or developers enter the creature's 
immediate domain. The Sasquatch insist that 
ET intervention occurred with all races of 
humans and higher hominoid types. The 
Sasquatch also said that 7 races of Bigfoot 
have been seeded on Earth, with one race less 
than five feet tall and another up to 15 feet 
tall,” says Lapseritis. 

Lapseritis believes that Sasquatch in current 
times is bringing a message of Earth danger, 
and of a great Armageddon soon to occur. 

ET or not, hoaxes or not, Lewis says "the 
bottom line is that most serious researchers 
know what Bigfoot is. He is a mountain ape 
first. Later they have to determine where they 
have come from, how many there are and 
whether or not they have a link to man.” 

"The reality of Bigfoot may be as mundane as 
a monkey that has yet to be classified by 
science. However seeing one in the forests of 
the United States can be an experience not 
easily forgotten,” Lewis says. 


BRITAIN PLANS £25M SHIELD TO 
PREVENT ASTEROID COLLISIONS 

(Jonathan Leake , Science Editor , September 
17 2000) 

A Government team is to propose spending up 
to £25m on a plan that would safeguard Britain 
and the world from devastation by a giant 
asteroid or comet. 


The Spaceguard initiative, expected to be 
announced tomorrow by Lord Sainsbury of 
Turville, the science minister, could see Britain 
using a chain of telescopes to detect and 
monitor "near-Earth objects”. 

A report, from a commission appointed by 
Sainsbury, says that Earth faces a tiny but 
definite risk of being struck one day by an 
asteroid - a large lump of stone or metals 
travelling at tens of miles a second. 
This kind of impact is believed to have wiped 
out the dinosaurs 65m years ago. 

A monitoring station possibly based at Armagh 
in Northern Ireland and linked to telescopes 
around the world, would be the first stage in a 
programme that would also investigate ways of 
knocking any approaching asteroid off a 
collision course with Earth. 

One option could be to fire a nuclear missile 
that would explode close to the incoming rock 
and deflect it. 

At least two big impacts were recorded during 
the last century alone. 

The first, at Tunguska in Siberia in 1908, 
devastated an area the size of greater London. 
The other, in Brazil in 1947, left several huge 
craters. Both fell in unpopulated areas and 
nobody was killed 

Last week astronomers announced that a huge 
asteroid would cross Earth's orbit today at a 
range of 2.6m miles. In astronomical terms this 
is a tiny distance - and others will come much 
closer. 

In 2027, a rock measuring half a mile in 
diameter, travelling at 50 miles per second and 
known as 1999 AN 10, will hurtle past Earth at 
a distance of just 200,000 miles. It will pass 
close by several more times - with nobody yet 
able to predict whether it will hit the planet. 

The British commission includes Professor 
Harry Atkinson, who has worked for the 
European Space Agency and other 
international bodies, and Sir Crispin Tickell, 
the former British ambassador to the United 
Nations. It was set up in January. 

The threat is already taken seriously by 
America and Japan, which have established 
their own Spaceguard projects. NASA has said 
it plans by 2006 to track all asteroids with 
diameters greater than 1km that will 
cross the path of Earth. 


14 

Vol. 4, # 4 , October 2000 








PRB 


An asteroid that size would wipe out most life 
and there would have been many such events 
early in Earth's 4.6 billion-year history. Now, 
however, the risk is much lower because most 
potential collisions have already happened 
The last big asteroid about six miles in 
diameter, was the one that wiped out the 
dinosaurs. 

The commission's report says Britain's role 
could be to find smaller objects, between 50 
yards and about half a mile in diameter, of 
which there are many thousands. 

Up to six telescopes would have to be built - 
some designed to detect near-Earth objects, 
others to track them continually and a third 
group to analyse the light they reflect in order 
to find out what they are made of. 

The aim of Spaceguard would be to ensure that 
Earth had sufficient advance warning - 
hopefully decades - to investigate and then 
take preventive action. 

A Whitehall source said: "We accept there is a 
risk and want Britain to take a leading role in 
dealing with it." 

Sainsbury wants other European countries to 
help finance the network, which would be 
computerised and would enable astronomers to 
build up a huge database from which they 
could predict which objects presented a 
threat. 

Mark Bailey, director of the Armagh 
Observatory, a world-renowned centre for the 
study of asteroids and comets, where the 
project would probably be based, believes the 
world is now so heavily populated that even a 
small impact could kill millions. "Asteroid and 
comet impacts have changed human history in 
the past and it could happen again," he said 

The biggest risk to Earth is from comets that 
appear at random from the Oort Cloud - a huge 
sphere of icy rubble that surrounds the solar 
system. They move very fast and could reach 
Earth within months of being spotted 

Dr Bill Napier, an astronomer who specialises 
in comets and asteroids, believes the only 
solution is to set up a fleet of rockets canying 
nuclear bombs that could be detonated half a 
mile from any threatening object. 

"You would only have to nudge them a few 
metres to send them safely past Earth to avoid 
Armageddon," he said 


MORE RATS THAN PEOPLE 

(Suzanna Chambers) 

BRITAIN could soon be overrun with rats as 
mild weather and an ever-ready supply of 
scraps causes the rodent population to explode. 

Experts warned last night that the number of 
rats roaming both in urban and rural areas of 
Britain could reach an all-time high if this 
winter is mild 

The problem is considered so serious that a 
special forum has been set up to address pest 
infestation. The advisory group, made up of 
local authority officers and rodent experts, met 
for the first time last week to try to come up 
with a cohesive pest control policy. 

Insiders say a lack of Government guidelines 
has made it difficult to tackle pest control 
issues in the past and they hope the forum will 
provide a standard practice needed to deal with 
the problem. 

The UK rat population now stands at well over 
70million - meaning there are more rats than 
people living in Britain, according to Rentokil 
Pest Control. 

In Edinburgh a pack of super-rats as big as cats 
has pushed the capital's rodent population to 
about eight million in the past six months. 

Rentokil Pest Control spokesman Jeffrey 
Roberts said: "Rats have continued to breed 
throughout the mild winters we have been 
experiencing and if we get another mild one 
this year we will have major problems." 

Rentokil has experienced an increase in call¬ 
outs of up to 20 per cent on last year across the 
country. In some areas complaints have nearly 
doubled, Mr Roberts said. According to rat 
expert Dr Steven Havers, an increase in 
fast-food outlets, free-range livestock 
enterprises and an apathetic attitude 
to rats' existence are also to blame. 

Dr Havers, a rodent consultant for the British 
Pest Control Association, said that every group 
of pigs wandering freely in a field will be 
sharing their food with a colony of rats. 

"If you were to walk round a grain store you 
would be horrified, bearing in mind that rats 
and mice cany diseases such as leptospirosis 
or Weil's disease," he said. "People might think 
that this situation paints a pretty bleak picture 
but that's what it is." Weil's disease attacks the 


15 

VoL 4, *4, October 2000 







nervous system, and up to 20 people suffer 
from it every year. Dogs can die from the 
disease if they drink stagnant water. 

A spokesman for the Chartered Institute 
of Environmental Health, the umbrella 
organisation which represents environmental 
health officers, confirmed that a mild winter 
could lead to a rise in rats. 

(Express Newspapers, 2000 ) 


WEST VIRGINIA "ANGEL HAIR" 
FALLS NEAR ROMNEY 

HAMPSHIRE COUNTY - A housewife in 
near rural Romney reported that the 
mysterious gossamer substance known as 
"angel's hair" fell in profusion on her family 
farm during the evening of Tuesday, 
September 19, 2000. The witness Rusty 
reports that, "Last night at about 7:00 PM, I 
heard a loud 'droning' sound, like a large 
airplane." I went out to look to see if I could 
spot it, but I could not. The droning lasted 
about an hour." 

"This morning, when I got up, my yard was 
full of this 'spider web stuff.' Don't know 
exactly how to describe this other than they 
looked like spider webs, but at the same time 
they were not your usual 'circular" webs? 

"I immediately got the camera out and took a 
dozen photos. I had my husband go the seven 
miles to town to buy some rubber gloves so we 
could get some samples. There were other 
spots of angel hair along the way, but nothing 
as heavy as was in my yard 

"The first sample he tried to get with the 
gloves soon turned into a goo-like substance as 
soon as he touched it. He put the samples on a 
piece of paper towel and put the gloves in with 
it in a plastic bag." 

“We were able to photograph the angel hair.” 

(As of publication , numerous possible 
explanations had been given on UFO sites 
and discussion groups on the internet , but the 
“angel-hair” had not positively been 
identified. Ed) 


PRB 


FIRST-OF-A KIND BIG FOOT 

DISCOVERY HAS SKEPTICS 
TAKING NOTICE 

(Eric Wilkinson , October 2 , 2000) 

MASON COUNTY - One of the Northwest’s 
biggest mysteries, the Sasquatch, also 
known as Bigfoot, is no longer a legend - it’s 
alive, according to researchers who have 
discovered what they say is its imprint. 

Deep in the northwest mountains, a team of 14 
researchers tracked the elusive primate-type 
beast for a week deep in the mountains of the 
Gifford Pinchot national forest. 

The imprint appears to be a hair-covered body 
lying down on its side, reaching over to get 
some fruit, the researchers said Thermal 
imaging confirmed that the body print was 
only hours old. 

From the imprint, they created a 250 lb. plaster 
cast of what they say is the lower half of the 
Sasquatch. 

"We actually almost missed it,” said researcher 
Derek Randels. “It dawned on us all at the 
same time, and it was overwhelming. 

"These heel impressions weren't made by a 
person getting in the mud wallow and 
squirming around" said Dr. Jeff Meldrum of 
Idaho State University. 

The trackers gathered hair samples that will be 
analyzed by DNA testing. They also made 
voice recordings of what they think is the 
Sasquatch wailing, also being sent off for 
analysis. 

The creature is believed to be 7 to 8 feet tall, 
weighing 800 to 1,000 lbs. The researchers 
believe there are hundreds just like it 
throughout forests in the Northwest. 

There are a lot of sightings, they added but 
estimate that more than 90 percent of sightings 
go unreported f or fear of ridicule. 

“This cast is very hard to argue with,” said 
Randels. “We have had a lot of very intelligent 
people looking at it in the last two days and I 
think it’s just going to be a heck of a shot in 
the arm for the credibility of the creature’s 
existence.” 


16 

Vol. 4, *4, October 2000 








PRB 

UFOs- THE KEY TURNING POINT (PART 4) 

BY W.H. BOOKER (YUFOS) 


There is another form of electrical energy- 
static electricity. This is when we can get 
certain objects ‘charged’ with positive or 
negative electrons. If these objects have equal 
amounts of + (positive) and - (negative) 
electrons they are said to be in a state of 
equilibrium, or balance. Strangely enough it is 
very easy to change this state of balance. 

The first easy example is to take a nylon comb 
and try to get the comb to attract small pieces 
of paper. If the comb is in a state of balance- as 
above- nothing will be attracted to it. Now 
comb your hair and see it attract the pieces of 
paper. 

This can be repeated using a piece of glass rod 
and rubbing it with a piece of silk. 

Have you ever noticed the ‘cracks’ and 
‘crackles’ when taking off a nylon shirt? These 
are sparks of electrical charges escaping from 
the nylon material. In fact if you do this in the 
dark you can even see the small flashes of light 
and sparks. 

The other familiar flashes we see are when it 
starts lightning during a storm. These lightning 
flashes are created by positive and negative 
charges building up in the clouds. Some of 
these charges build up to 100MV (million 
volts) at 20,000 amps. These charges always 
take the shortest path to Earth, or to other 
clouds with opposite charges. 

The second example is to turn the kitchen tap 
on with just a gentle stream of water 
descending, then with a charged comb - hold it 
close to the stream of water and watch the 
water move towards the comb. You can’t do 
that with the strongest magnet! 

The third example involves driving a car in dry 
weather, which causes friction with the air 
passing over the bodywork. This creates a 
charge in the body of the car, building up over 
a long journey. This is due to the body being 
insulated from earth by rubber tyres. Years ago 
I was feeling a little tired after a lengthy 
journey, but the shock I received from the car 
door handle soon woke me up! Nowadays we 
have the earthing strips to eliminate this, thank 
goodness. 


Through experiments, physicists have found 
that many objects containing a charge, be is 
positive or negative, only appear on the 
surface. For more complex reasons, the more 
curved the surface the greater the density there. 
Thus a sphere will have a constant charge 
density. Any charge in a cube will appear only 
on the edges and if there is a point, nearly all 
the charge will be at it’s tip. From anything 
with a point on it there will be a leakage, or 
point discharge. 

This is the one of the reasons scientists and 
physicists pay little attention to static 
electricity or electrical charges as a form of 
energy, because it leaks away. Just like water, 
it evaporates into the atmosphere. 

If we just stop for a moment and think what is 
happening to all of this energy. The 100 
million volts of electrical charges, plus the 
hydrogen, the oxygen, evaporated from the 
seas, rivers, lakes and ponds? The hydrogen 
and oxygen gasses rise up to cooler regions, to 
form clouds, which again hold the electrical 
charges to give us lightning and rain to form 
our rivers. But all of this electricity is 
contained in an envelope close to the surface 
of our own sphere, the Earth. The gasses and 
charges do not disappear out into space - why- 
because it is held close to the surface by the 
Earth’s magnetic field. 

We should be asking ourselves where does all 
this energy, the charges, the static electricity, 
come from? Earlier I explained many objects 
are in a neutral state, like the comb or glass 
rod, until charged by friction, like the car 
travelling on a long journey, the charge 
building up on the bodywork until discharged 
by a ‘short’ to Earth. 

During the chapter on speed we discussed the 
tremendous speeds the Earth travels through 
space- over 548,000 mph. Out there in space is 
not a complete vacuum, there are millions of 
tons of particles and gasses floating about, 
much of it from our own Sun. Therefore I 
believe that our atmosphere is highly charged 
by friction travelling through space at high 
speed. Not only does the Earth become 
charged, but also all of the other satellites. 


17 

Vol. 4, *4, October 2000 








PRB 


moons and planets. We know the Moon of ours 
has only a veiy weak gravitational field, 176 th 
that of Earth. But it must contain a large static 
electrical charge it it causes our tides on Earth. 

It is my belief that not only the Moon, but all 
of the local planets such as Mars, Jupier, 
Saturn (more-so the large planets), have a 
considerable effect on each other and the 
Earth. 

All the planets in our Solar System revolve 
around the Sun, but each one travelling at a 
different speed. Every so many years a group 
of planets come together in a line - one behind 
the other. 

In 1999 this happened to two or three, almost 
in-line. I mentioned earlier that it was my 
belief that the planets have considerable effect 
on each other. Looking back at the beginning 
of last year, we had more earthquakes, plus 
volcanic eruptions all around the world than 
we care to think about. On more than one 
occasion, this happened when our Sun was 
also closely aligned with these other planets. It 
is my opinion that our little planet Earth was 
having a so-called tug-o-war with our celestial 
neighbours. Thus the most fragile areas of the 
Earth’s crust just gave way! 

Not enough serious study of static electricity 
has been done in the past, even the physics 
text-books have shied away from any detailed 
analysis of this high energy. This static 
electricity is simply an electrical charge that 
isn’t moving, has a high voltage, but little 
current. These voltages could be measured in 
various ways. But no-one seemed to discuss 
was why such huge voltages could be built up 
in an innocent little comb, or even in the 
clouds. 

There are several machines that can produce 
this static electricity, the main one being the 
Van Der Graaf generator. Even a small 
machine of this type can produce up to V 2 a 
million volts, the larger models up to 10 
million volts. If we came into close contact 
with some of the very small machines, they 
may not be harmful but many of us know that 
they can give us a very strong tingling 
sensation, plus make your hair stand up on 
end. 

Coming back to Earth’s gravity, it is 
understood that there is a slight difference of 
attraction at the Poles as opposed to the 


Equator. This is most likely due to the speed 
we are travelling at the equator, being above 
1000 mph and at the Poles almost nil. With the 
speed at the Equator being high, the centrifugal 
force is greater than where we are at Great 
Britain, much further North. But even at the 
Equator this force is not strong enough to 
overcome gravity. 

We have all seen photos and film shots of the 
Earth from space. Over the curved surface 
there appears very little to be seen in our 
atmosphere. If we were to stop and think about 
this, it is only natural because the air we 
breathe gets very thin above about 4 miles 
high. Thus looking at our curved surface from 
out in space, this four miles is virtually 
invisible, especially looking at Great Britain 
when it appears about the size of a postage 
stamp! 

Yet within the thickness of our atmosphere we 
get all of our weather patterns; the typhoons, 
tornadoes, whirlwinds, electrical storms, wind, 
rain, hail, snow- it is estimated that the Earth 
has a phenomenal 8,000,000 lightning flashes 
every day. Think of that total voltage- eight 
million, billion volts! All ‘wasted’ as lightning. 

At this stage I would like you to use your 
imagination. You are in a space capsule, 
coming back to Earth from a trip around the 
Moon. You have been travelling in space for 
days, through solar storms, solar winds, 
through clouds of microscopic dust particles, 
gasses, meteorites and satellites. After all this 
time in space you are just getting used to 
weightlessness, then you look through a 
window - and there it is, in all it’s majesty, in 
a black velvet sea, surrounded by millions of 
colourful stars...our very own celestial globe, 
giving off a beautiful silvery-blue light, 
suspended as if by invisible hands. It appears 
to be motionless, yet gliding silently and 
relentlessly through space. 

We are going down now through the radiation 
belts, then going first into orbit before entering 
the Earth’s atmosphere at the correct angle to 
avoid burning up! As soon as we are past this 
barrier, gravity starts taking a big toll. We need 
to slow down quickly by using a parachute to 
lower us gently into the sea or onto land 

(Continued next issue...) 


18 

Vol. 4, #4, October 2000 










PRB 


THE WANDJINA 

By Bill Chalker 

(Copyright: 1976, 2000) 

Anyone watching the Olympics will have no doubt seen the flag unfurled by the aboriginal tribes ; 
which many people versed in UFO lore thought greatly resembled the image of the archetypical 
Grey’. This was discussed on the UFO-Updates Internet list, and Australian researcher Bill Chalker 
posted this article as explanation... (Ed) 


In March, 1837, George Grey led an 
expedition into the interior of the Kimberleys 
in north west Australia, originally to see if 
the inland sea existed. Although no such inland 
sea was found. Grey widely explored a part of 
the Kimberley. It was during this exploration 
that Grey discovered 2 sites with rock 
paintings of the type we now refer to as 
Wandjina paintings. 

Grey relates the discoveries in his journals , 
and his drawings appear in Volume 1 of his 
Expeditions of Discovery (1841). Subsequent 
expeditions into the area by Brookman (1901), 
Love (1930), Elkin (1930, 1948), members of 
the Frobenius expedition (1938), Coates 
(1952) and Crawford (1962, 1963 and 1964) 
confirm most of Grey’s material. 

Indeed Wandjina type paintings are dispersed 
over a wide area of the Kimberley and are 
generally assumed to illustrate the 
principal characters of an extraordinarily 
complicated myth system. Interpretations of 
what these figures represent, vary quite 
markedly from mere nature symbolism, to 
evidence for intrusion by other races, to 
indications of visitations by anomalistic 
anthropomorphic phenomena that is aliens and 
the like. 

Although subsequent expeditions have 
indicated some inaccuracies in Grey s 
drawings most compare reasonably well with 
established and documented sites. But one of 
Grey s drawings is somewhat unique. He 
located a painting of the figure of a man 10 
feet 6 inches in length, clothed from the chin 
downwards in a red garment, which reached to 
the wrists and ankles. 

In Greys own words: 

The face and head of the figure were 
enveloped in a succession of circular bandages 
or rollers, or what appeared to be painted 


to represent such. These were coloured red, 
yellow and white, and the eyes were the only 
features represented on the face. Upon the 
highest bandage or roller, a series of lines were 
painted in red, but although so regularly done 
as to indicate that they were intended to depict 
written characters, or some ornament for the 
head&. The painting was more injured by the 
damp and atmosphere, and had the appearance 
of being much more defaced and ancient than 
any of the others, which we had seen. This 
figure brings to mind the description of the 
prophet Ezekiel. 

It was this particular painting that sparked 
considerable controversy. It was bandied about 
as evidence for early incursions by foreign 
peoples and the series of lines & painted 
in red, which may have depicted written 
characters, were given all manner of 
interpretations. Indeed it was suggested by 
some, that these characters represented a 
decipherable script. Thomas Worsnop 
indicated they read, I am a great personage&, 
they being made by traders from the Red Sea 
area. Professor Campbell suggested the script 
was archaic Japanese, and offered the 
translation: the number of the hopeless ones is 
62, from which he concluded that a Japanese 
vessel floundered on the coast leaving 
survivors. Probably no less exotic a connection 
is the suggestion by Professor Hornet that 
similar markings were found curved onto 
stones in certain parts of South America. The 
suggestion is that perhaps a superior people in 
these areas were the source or stimuli for the 
marks. 

The only problem with all these speculations, 
is that the painting, upon which they were 
based, has not been found yet, or rather its 
existence, in the form Grey described and 
drew, has not been confirmed. I. M. Crawford, 
of the Western Australian Museum, suggested 
he found the painting upon which Grey based 
the strange sketch. Crawford s figure however 


19 

Voi. 4, *4, October 2000 









PRB 


is 2 feet shorter than the Grey dimensions, and 
appears to have a top feather projecting out of 
the top bandage or roller. This dissimilarity 
and other factors suggest that Grey s second 
cave, the locality of the Ezekiel figure has not 
actually been found. 

Generally the Wandjina figures that have been 
found are connected with the sky by most 
indigenous tribes. Indeed, the aborigines view 
the Wandjina as the spirit in the cloud, 
understanding them as being both human in 
form and cloud like. The elaborate head-dress 
is usually interpreted as the lightning, which 
the Wandjina controlled. Perhaps more 
succinctly, the Wandjina are thought of as 
beings in the clouds. They originally came out 
of the clouds, and now, as the aborigines see it, 
they return in that form. In a similar vein, 
certain tribesmen say the Wandjina have 
returned to the sky, and can now be seen at 
night as lights moving high above the earth. 

It appears that the cloud connection is the more 
dominant belief. It is perhaps interesting to 
note that the cloud by day and pillar of fire by 
night, featuring in Exodus, exhibit the 
same religious myth. The superior being (or 
beings) is in the cloud. The Bible takes the 
connection even further by indicating that this 
superior being (God it seems) is humanoid 
in appearance, speaking to Moses on a person- 
to-person basis. The cloud is also capable of 
landing. The cloud and being are distinctly 
separate. 

Whether this same myth mechanism is 
operating as a stimuli for the Wandjina legends 
is entirely speculative, but I.M. Crawford 
indicates that the paintings of the Wandjina 
range from human figures to stylised 
representation of clouds: 

The sequence from human to cloud form 
evolves through the following stages: 
Wandjina paintings usually show man like 
figures complete with body, but in some cases 
the body is omitted and only the head and 
shoulders retained, and in the next stage the 
shoulders are omitted leaving us just the halo 
surrounding the face. This is finally simplified 
until the halo becomes a mass of concentric 
lines, with only the eyes peering through & the 
eye of the storm. 

W. Arndt, a senior research officer with the 
CSIRO, suggested that the reverse may have 
been the stimuli for the Wandjina figures. That 
is, that the paintings evolved from paintings of 
clouds. 


Of further interest is the association between 
the Wandjina belief and the Rainbow-Serpent 
myth. The Rainbow Serpent is called Galaru in 
the northern Kimberely and Ungud elsewhere. 
According to legend, Galaiu lives in a sacred 
pool near the Wandjina cave, and is 
responsible for the spirits of babies which it 
brings to the waterholes. These spirits are 
incarnated, by the retouching of the Wandjina. 
The latter finds an analogy of sorts with the 
fairy faith myths of child-napping. The 
children, often as not returned, or they appear 
as changelings . This belief in changelings was 
not restricted to Europe. It can be found in 
regions as remote as Australia, China and the 
American Pacific coast. F.W. Halliday 
speculated about a dragon and the disc myth. 
With the Wandjina associated with the cloud , 
the serpent and cloud mythic connection 
resonates with Halliday’s thesis. 

In conclusion, the Wandjina myth exhibits a 
number of mythological components common 
to those more directly ascribed in other 
documented beliefs. The analogies with the 
biblical, fairy and dragon myths have been 
noted, merely to demonstrate the generality of 
myths of the superior being acting as a 
cultural catalyst for primitive societies. The 
speculations outlined are purely exploratory 
and should not be regarded as evidence for 
supporting the idea that extraterrestrial beings 
were the stimuli for the Wandjina myths. 
Indeed the arguments are more suggestive of 
anomalous anthropomorphic incursions of 
some type, which appear to have some 
similarities with other documented sky myths. 
Just finding out who these beings were, 
finds an interesting analogy in the 
contemporary UFO myths. As such they are of 
particular interest to researchers. 


The Art of the Wadjina by I.M. Crawford 
(Western Australian Museum), 1968; 

The journals of George Grey, "Expeditions of 
Discovery " 

The Australian Aboriginal by A.P. Elkin 
(1954) 

Australian Religions by M. Eliade (1973) 

The Past is human by P. White (1974) 


Bill Chalker 


20 

Vol. 4, *4, October 2000 









