{
  "title": "Eharmony: More Than Traditional Internet Dating",
  "source": "OpenAlex",
  "url": "https://www.questia.com/library/journal/1G1-289621021/eharmony-more-than-traditional-internet-dating",
  "matched_term": "Yahoo",
  "figure": "Yahoo",
  "date_published": "2012-01-01",
  "publication": "Journal of the International Academy of Case Studies",
  "author": "Atul Gupta, Rebecca Murtha, Niharika Patel",
  "region_signal": "Australia",
  "location_confidence": "low",
  "abstract": "CASE DESCRIPTION This case will allow students to analyze marketing strategy and target markets, be informed about and able to discuss legal and ethical issues in the marketplace and also about branding of a company and how the brand can continue to keep the company going one way even if going another way is in the company's best interests. This case has a difficulty level of three to four and is best utilized in higher-level undergraduate or graduate courses. This case is designed to be taught in one and a half class hours with students having two hours of out-of-class preparation. CASE SYNOPSIS EHarmony is an online dating company that was started in 2000, under the premise that it matched couples scientifically on 29 dimensions of compatibility. Unlike other dating sites, eHarmony focuses specifically on creating lifelong and has marketed the company accordingly. Originally, eHarmony was based on strong Christian principles, using the number of marriages produced from the site as a marketing tactic. However, competition and a more mature market have led the company to expand in order to survive and still hold a competitive advantage. Now, it has gone after the secular market in order to compete with the largest online dating company, Match.com. In trying to expand, however, eHarmony has made several mistakes. First, eHarmony has excluded gays and lesbians and been sued for doing so. They eventually settled out of court and agreed to provide gays and lesbians with a separate service for matching. Furthermore, other lawsuits allege that eHarmony's matching system is not scientific and allows online predators and scam artists to connect with unknowing singles. That case is still in the court system. Another way that eHarmony has tried to expand is by creating specific sites for different countries. In Britain, it created a new method of matching for British singles, but for its Canadian and Australian sites, eHarmony utilized the same system as in the United States. Ignoring the sociological differences could be extremely detrimental to the company as a whole. Finally, eHarmony has chosen to advertise in traditional ways, utilizing television and print advertisements instead of advertising online or creating applications for mobile devices. In doing so, eHarmony has missed out on a large part of the market - the younger generation that is constantly on the go and rely on mobile devices and computers rather than television and print. INTRODUCTION In 1997, after practicing clinical psychology for 35 years, Dr. Neil Clark Warren came to believe that there was a better way to find love than by simply leaving it up to chance. Dr. Warren set out to test this theory and identify the characteristics between spouses that were consistently associated with the most successful relationships. After three years of research, Warren's team developed the Compatibility Matching System. This system allows matchmaking between compatible persons with whom they are likely to enjoy a long-term relationship. Based on this model, eHarmony was launched in 2000 and since then, millions of people have used eHarmony' s Compatibility Matching System to find compatible long-tem relationships, many of them leading to marriages. In the beginning, Warren started marketing eHarmony primarily to Christian sites, touting it as being based on Christian principles. Now in marketing through TV or radio ads, ($50 million spent last year, $80 million projected this year) there is no mention of its Christian connection. EHarmony is increasingly seeking out secular audiences through online partnerships with various media outlets. EHarmony' s matchmaking service has grown into the fourth-largest dating site on the Web, behind Match.com, Yahoo! Personals and Spark Networks, according to Internet measurement company comScore Media Metrix. While other leading dating sites allow users to find their own matches by searching through online ads, eHarmony has its users fill out a 436question test designed to evoke thoughtful and revealing responses. …",
  "note": "OpenAlex public metadata only; full text was not collected."
}