{
  "title": "The Internet as an Investment Tool",
  "source": "OpenAlex",
  "url": "https://www.questia.com/library/journal/1G1-77050132/the-internet-as-an-investment-tool",
  "matched_term": "Yahoo",
  "figure": "Yahoo",
  "date_published": "2001-08-01",
  "publication": "Journal of accountancy online/Journal of accountancy",
  "author": "Sarah Phelan",
  "region_signal": "Australia",
  "location_confidence": "low",
  "abstract": "EXECUTIVE SUMMARY * CPA/FINANCIAL PLANNERS NEED TO BE WEB SAVVY. The Internet makes it possible for CPA/financial planners and individual investors to be notified on-screen when news breaks about a particular stock. * INVESTORS FOLLOW A STOCK BY WATCHING its price and trading volume and factors such as the P/E ratio and volatility rating compared against the overall market's. The Web can help do this cheaply, accurately, at any time of day and without consulting a stockbroker. * AN ELECTRONIC MODEL PORTFOLIO can test drive an investment's behavior. A CPA/financial planner should look for charts offered by these services, including those that compare the stock to a benchmark over time and record the user's unrealized capital gains. * THE SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION CORPORATION (SIPC) protects up to $500,000 of securities (limited to $100,000 for cash) held in a customer's brokerage account. There is no reason for a CPA, or a CPA's client, to do business with a broker that does not offer SIPC protection. * MANY INTERNET BANKS OFFER FREE Web-based calculators, such as those for mortgage interest rates. A Web calculator from a respected site can provide useful ballpark numbers for a mortgage or an easy way to benchmark a price. * SECURITY IS A MUST FOR ANYONE connecting to the Internet, whether by dial-up modem or broadband connection. Get a good antivirus program--and use it. Encryption is important, too. Look for 128-bit encryption when transmitting confidential data over the Internet. The Web can't substitute for experience and judgment. Remember that axiom about using good tools to do a good job? A tool whose time has come, the Internet--with its fast access to voluminous information--has revolutionized the retail securities marketplace and is rapidly changing the financial arenas in which CPAs and their clients interact. A CPA not yet using the Web to monitor and manage personal or client finances almost certainly will have to catch up with clients who do. The Internet makes it possible for CPA/financial planners and money managers, as well as individual investors, to use e-based variants of time-honored data-gathering and financial-projection tools. On the Web, planners can follow a stock by watching its price and trading volume and studying its P/E ratio and volatility rating compared against the overall market's. Best of all they can do it easily, cheaply, accurately, at any time of day--and without consulting a broker. CPA/financial planners and individual investors can get streaming video of the major market tickers on their computer screens; arrange to have a pop-up box appear when news breaks about a particular stock; and be alerted by e-mail, beeper or cell phone when a stock reaches a set price or an index moves by a predetermined amount. This article looks into some of the many electronic tools CPAs can use to help clients right now. ONLINE, INFO IS ALWAYS AT HAND The Web offers easy access to information that traditionally has been available via print, radio and television. Although the medium is relatively new, the benchmarks against which stock performance is measured are still the major indexes. Sites such as www.cnnfn.com, www.dowJones.com and www.nbcl.com now report these benchmarks, too. So do major wire service Web sites such as APOnline (www.aponline.com) and Reuters (www.reuters.com). Internet portals such as AOL and Yahoo give regular updates on the indexes and the markets, and, of course, The Wall Street Journal covers them on its Web site, www.wsj.com All this technology focuses primarily on pre-Internet indexes--the S&P 500, the NASDAQ, the DJIA and the Russell 2000. Other commonly available indexes or benchmark rates are the federal-funds rate (the rate at which banks lend each other money overnight), the EAFE (European, Australian and Far East) index, the Wilshire 5000, the commodities indexes and foreign exchange rates. …",
  "note": "OpenAlex public metadata only; full text was not collected."
}