{
  "title": "Dr George Musgrave 1920-2006",
  "source": "OpenAlex",
  "url": "https://www.questia.com/library/journal/1G1-169134527/dr-george-musgrave-1920-2006",
  "matched_term": "Quinkan",
  "figure": "Quinkan",
  "date_published": "2007-03-22",
  "publication": "Australian aboriginal studies/Australian Aboriginal studies",
  "author": "Noelene Cole, Bruce Rigsby, Victor Steffenson",
  "region_signal": "Queensland",
  "location_confidence": "medium",
  "abstract": "Dr George Musgrave passed away suddenly at Laura, North Queensland, on 9 February 2006, aged 86 years. George was an elder, a 'main man', of the Kuku Thaypan or Awu Laya people, well-known and respected throughout Cape York Peninsula, and a strong and active community leader in Laura. Family and friends called him 'Poppy', and his language name was Me Rromi 'Eaglehawk Man'. George was remarkable not only for his personal qualities (energy, leadership, generosity, tolerance, sense of humour and wonderful laugh), but for his detailed knowledge of land, culture and history, and his ability and willingness to pass on this knowledge for the benefit of all Australians. Victor Steffenson noted too in his eulogy at the funeral, 'He was the best fisherman you could hope to know.' George was born around 1920 on Mus-grave Station. Like many other Aboriginal men of south-central Cape York Peninsula, George's family had taken up work in the cattle industry in the late nineteenth century in the face of the violence and disruptions to their traditional life brought about by European settlement. At the age of ten, George started working on Musgrave Station for Old Fred Shephard. George and his younger brother Tommy George called Fred 'Dad', and considered him and his family to be relations. At a time when the police were removing Aboriginal children and families from country to missions and reserves, Fred hid George and Tommy in mailbags in the store-room to protect them from this fate. George remembers the police downstairs saying on one such occasion, 'You got any black kids here; don't tell lies to us.' George became an accomplished stockman, taking part in epic droving trips to the distant saleyards at Mareeba long before the days of the Peninsula Development Road. His experience and skills in the cattle industry were widely acknowledged. For years after he retired from the industry, cattlemen sought him out for advice on mustering, burning-off and other aspects of land and pastoral management. [ILLUSTRATION OMITTED] When his older brother, Jerry Shephard, retired from the Queensland Police Force, George replaced him as the police tracker in Laura. George was a master tracker, and many times he assisted the police and State Emergency Services to rescue people lost in the bush. George often expressed his sense of humour in recounting his adventures, such as when he disguised himself as an old woman to approach an armed fugitive. The ruse worked; he then disarmed and arrested the man, George's father, also named George Musgrave, was a senior custodian of rock-art and cultural heritage in the Quinkan Region, and over the past thirty years George also served in the role. After retirement from the Queensland Police Department in the early 1990s, George became a key participant in projects documenting the cultural heritage of the Laura region, for example, the Quinkan Prehistory Project (University of New England), the successful Lakefield National Park land claim and the Awu-Laya Traditional Knowledge Recording Project. …",
  "note": "OpenAlex public metadata only; full text was not collected."
}