{
  "title": "Traditional Healers of Central Australia: Ngangkari",
  "source": "OpenAlex",
  "url": "https://www.questia.com/library/journal/1G1-511789849/traditional-healers-of-central-australia-ngangkari",
  "matched_term": "Mamu",
  "figure": "Mamu",
  "date_published": "2017-03-22",
  "publication": "Australian aboriginal studies/Australian Aboriginal studies",
  "author": "Belinda Burbidge",
  "region_signal": "Australia",
  "location_confidence": "low",
  "abstract": "Traditional healers of Central Australia: Ngangkari Ngaanyatjarra Pitjantjatjara Yankunytjatjara Women's Council Aboriginal Corporation 2013 Magabala Books, Broome, WA, 272pp, ISBN 9781921248825 (pbk) [ILLUSTRATION OMITTED] Traditional healers of Central Australia: Ngangkari is a rich and diverse collection of Ngangkari stories that builds on the previous text, Ngangkari work--Anangu way, which is now out of print. The text contains stories, similes and symbols of Anangu cultural beliefs and ways of life, and the sophisticated translations from Pitjantjatjara, Yankunytjatjara and Ngaanyatjarra by the translation team must be noted. An introduction by the late Kunmanara, (1) knowledgeable and respected senior Pitjantjatjara man, immediately situates the text in the Anangu Pitjantjatjara Yankunytjatjara (APY) lands with an Anangu voice. Tjilpi (2) Kunmanara's story thereafter provides information about the process of becoming Ngangkari and mapanpa (qualified Ngangkari, sacred tools) and dealing with different types of mamu (harmful spirits), which allows the reader to understand the stories from other Ngangkari that follow. Ngangkari means healer or doctor Anangu way and also refers to the Anangu medical system. Nowadays, this system is complemented by the Western medical system practised at the community clinics and town hospitals. The two systems work well together because they treat different illnesses and afflictions. The Ngangkari system treats the invisible, which can only be seen by Ngangkari eyes (p.35). In this sense, another late senior Pitjantjatjara man explained the role of the Ngangkari: 'the Ngangkari's job is to make sure everyone is safe. That is the work of Ngangkari' (p.114). According to Anangu, the Western system treats the visible--sores and injuries, as well as the invisible sicknesses from colonisation such as alcohol and sugar-related diseases. It is these new kinds of sickness that trouble Ngangkari and are repeatedly raised in the stories and in the wang-kanyi (discussion) section of the text. For example, Ngangkari cannot help renal sickness because Ngangkari do not work with injured kidneys; they are too delicate (p.72). They also cannot heal substance abuse illnesses because it causes one's spirit to flee or be killed (p.214). While most Ngangkari work outside or alongside the Western medical system, some do both; Ilawanti Ken works as Ngangkari and was trained and worked as a health worker at the clinic in Amata, one of the larger APY communities. Like doctors, some Ngangkari specialise in particular areas of healing; for example, Ngangkari Josephine Watjari Mick often works with children experiencing stomach problems (p.99). Through storytelling the text implicitly explains the multifaceted community framework for Anangu health, which includes being close to family, being on (or having access to) and looking after country, spiritual safety, being taught tjukurpa and knowledge from one's ancestors, and having access to bush foods, meats and medicines. …",
  "note": "OpenAlex public metadata only; full text was not collected."
}