A Big Country – Peninsula People (1968) clip 2 on ASO - Australia's audio and visual heritage online Australian Screen an NFSA website Titles People Education News Games log in / register home : titles : television programs : A Big Country –... A Big Country – Peninsula People ( 1968) Share Facebook Twitter Email Email a link to this page To: CC: Subject: Body: I thought you might be interested in this clip which is on the australianscreen website (https://aso.gov.au/). A Big Country – Peninsula People 1968 http://aso.gov.au/titles/tv/big-country-peninsula-people/clip2/ clip 1 2 The spirit people clip 2 Original classification rating : PG. This clip chosen to be PG Curator’s notes Education notes Transcript Clip description Percy Trezise is a pilot who searches for Aboriginal rock paintings in his spare time. He’s uncovered some magnificent paintings of the ancestral spirits known as Quinkan beings, who are of special significance to the Aboriginal people of the Peninsula. Curator’s notes by Janet Bell The director effectively captures the passion and the expertise of Percy Trezise, and the well-chosen questions result in a concise but fascinating overview of the cave paintings. Percy was the pilot with a passion to bring Aboriginal rock paintings to the attention of the wider public, while Dick Roughsey (Goobalathaldin) was an elder of the Lardil from Mornington Island in the Gulf of Carpentaria. They would go on to form a partnership that lasted for many years and made them household names in Australia as the author and illustrator, respectively, of a series of children’s books about traditional Aboriginal stories. This program in the late 1960s captures their earliest collaboration. It’s such a pity the filming is in black-and-white because some of these rock paintings are really beautiful, a large part of their charm to non-Indigenous eyes coming from the colour palate used by these traditional artists. Teacher’s notes provided by This clip shows rock art expert Percy Trezise describing and interpreting Aboriginal rock art at the Split Rock gallery in Queensland. The clip opens with footage of a group of men walking along the escarpment to the rock gallery. Shots of Trezise in close-up precede a panning shot of the gallery showing the range of overlapping images displayed there. Trezise speculates on the age of the art and talks about two images in particular, an ancient petroglyph etched on the rock and a painted spirit figure. Music with clapping sticks begins the clip. Educational value points The Split Rock gallery is one of the world’s most significant rock art sites. It has been included on the Australian Heritage Estate and listed by UNESCO . Located 13 km south of the town of Laura on Cape York, it contains a large array of paintings, engravings and drawings of animals, humans and ancestral spirit figures. The artwork presents a rich pictorial record of the spiritual life and identity of the local Indigenous people. Percy Trezise (1923-2005) explored this rock art site in 1959 and went on to visit and record 1,500 other rock art sites in the Cape York region. Working with Elders and respecting their knowledge, he recognised the significance of the sites for Indigenous peoples and documented them for all Australians. It was through his efforts that the sites were declared a protected area in 1975. Trezise gained fame as an artist, writer, painter and rock art authority. The artwork in the Split Rock gallery includes superimposed examples of pictograph and petroglyph images. Petroglyphs, in this case carved geometric shapes, are created by removing part of a rock surface by carving, hammering or abrading. Pictographs are images drawn or painted on the rock surface using dry or wet pigments, usually ochre. The fact that the pictographs occur in layers over the carvings denotes lengthy human occupation of the area. The Anurra, one of the figures painted on the wall, is the more malign manifestation of the Quinkan, a spirit being sacred to the Indigenous peoples of the region, the Agayrra-Timara and Wulburjubur-Bama peoples. Trezise acknowledges the sacred nature of the site to Indigenous people based on their belief in the continuing presence of the Quinkan. The sandstone region of Cape York, which contains many rock art galleries, is known as the Quinkan Reserve. Trezise speculates on the age of the rock art, suggesting that the early rock engravings could be 10,000 years old. While the date is still subject to scientific enquiry, the Gallery’s engraved walls have now been dated to more than 13,000 years ago. Layers of pigments in two rock shelters on Cape York have been dated to 25,000 and almost 30,000 years old. The oldest known human occupation of rock shelters in the Quinkan region is dated to 32,000 years ago. The knowledge and viewpoints of the local people on the rock art, which their ancestors produced and whose Dreaming continues, are not acknowledged in the clip – a common practice at the time when non-Indigenous commentary was regarded as the only authentic authority by television producers and audiences. Such reporting was not reflective of Trezise’s practice, however, as he worked respectfully with Elders to understand and record culture. A group of men walk along the escarpment to the rock gallery at the Split Rock gallery in Queensland. Narrator For the past nine years an airlines captain has been finding and drawing Aboriginal cave paintings. He spots them by flying low over the country and he’s found 200 of them. His name is Percy Trezise. Percy Trezise is interviewed at the rock gallery. Footage of him speaking is intercut with images of the rock paintings. Percy Trezise Well, this was once a sacred site and I’m certain by the debris about here – the campfire debris – that this was converted to secular use, to family living. Interviewer Now, Perce, why is this gallery so interesting to you? Percy Because of the tremendous number of super-impositions. One style is painted one on top of the other and it actually starts off with the very earliest of the chronological sequence of art styles in that ancient petroglyph there, the curious abstract shape with the – oh, and there’s other meandering lines here. Interviewer Do you know how old that would be? Percy No, we haven’t – we do know that Aborigines were rock engraving 5, 6000 years ago in Arnhem Land but I suspect that these could be very much older. They might – I think possibly in terms of 10,000 years for the very earliest of the rock engravings. Interviewer Now, which ones would be the newest? Percy Well, the most recent painting here would be, I think, that spirit figure up there – Anurra. That’s the one with his legs bent up and his long tail there. He’s a spirt figure – Quinkan – which – he bounces about on his penis and they say that he can travel half a mile in one hop and he’s potentially malignant. Thanks to the generosity of the rights holders, we are able to offer The spirit people from the television program A Big Country – Peninsula People as a high quality video download. To play the downloadable video, you need QuickTime 7.0 , VLC , or similar. You must read and agree to the following terms and conditions before downloading the clip: Downloadable Video – FOR EDUCATIONAL CRITICISM AND REVIEW PURPOSES ONLY This clip is available for download for the limited purpose of criticism and review in an educational context. You must obtain permission from editorial@aso.gov.au for all other purposes for use of this material. Terms & Conditions australianscreen is produced by the National Film and Sound Archive. By using the website you agree to comply with the terms and conditions described here and elsewhere on this site. The NFSA may amend the 'Conditions of Use’ from time to time without notice. All materials on the site, including but not limited to text, video clips, audio clips, designs, logos, illustrations and still images, are protected by the Copyright Laws of Australia and international conventions. ALL rights are reserved. You must read and agree to the following terms and conditions before downloading this clip: When you access ABC materials on australianscreen you agree that: You may download this clip to assist your information, criticism and review purposes in conjunction with viewing this website only; Downloading this clip for purposes other than criticism and review is Prohibited; Downloading for purposes other than non-commercial educational uses is Prohibited; Downloading this clip in association with any commercial purpose is Prohibited; The National Film and Sound Archive’s permission must be sought to amend any information in the materials, unless otherwise stated in notices throughout the Site. ANY UNAUTHORISED USE OF MATERIAL ON THIS SITE MAY RESULT IN CIVIL AND CRIMINAL LIABILITY . This clip is available in the following configurations: File name Size Quality Suitability bcpenins2_pr.mp4 Large: 12.5MB High Optimised for full-screen display on a fast computer. bcpenins2_bb.mp4 Medium: 5.9MB Medium Can be displayed full screen. Also suitable for video iPods. Right-click on the links above to download video files to your computer. Thanks to the generosity of the rights holders, we are able to offer this clip in an embeddable format for personal or non-commercial educational use in full form on your own website or your own blog. You must read and agree to the following terms and conditions before embedding the clip: Downloadable Video – FOR EDUCATIONAL CRITICISM AND REVIEW PURPOSES ONLY This clip is available for download for the limited purpose of criticism and review in an educational context. You must obtain permission from editorial@aso.gov.au for all other purposes for use of this material. Terms & Conditions australianscreen is produced by the National Film and Sound Archive. By using the website you agree to comply with the terms and conditions described here and elsewhere on this site. The NFSA may amend the 'Conditions of Use’ from time to time without notice. All materials on the site, including but not limited to text, video clips, audio clips, designs, logos, illustrations and still images, are protected by the Copyright Laws of Australia and international conventions. ALL rights are reserved. You must read and agree to the following terms and conditions before downloading this clip: When you access ABC materials on australianscreen you agree that: You may download this clip to assist your information, criticism and review purposes in conjunction with viewing this website only; Downloading this clip for purposes other than criticism and review is Prohibited; Downloading for purposes other than non-commercial educational uses is Prohibited; Downloading this clip in association with any commercial purpose is Prohibited; The National Film and Sound Archive’s permission must be sought to amend any information in the materials, unless otherwise stated in notices throughout the Site. ANY UNAUTHORISED USE OF MATERIAL ON THIS SITE MAY RESULT IN CIVIL AND CRIMINAL LIABILITY . Copy and paste the following code into your own web page to embed this clip: <object width="480" height="360" data="http://aso.gov.au/media/chrome/flowplayer.commercial-3.2.7.swf" type="application/x-shockwave-flash"><param name="movie" value="http://aso.gov.au/media/chrome/flowplayer.commercial-3.2.7.swf" /><param name="allowfullscreen" value="true" /><param name="wmode" value="opaque" /><param name="bgcolor" value="#000000" /><param name="allowscriptaccess" value="always" /><param name="flashvars" value='config={"clip":{"url":"https://d2bx93w6kas18u.cloudfront.net/titles/bcpenins/bcpenins2_bb.mp4","scaling":"fit","autoPlay":false,"autoBuffering":true},"key":"#@ace34faff37a9f06796","plugins":{"content":{"url":"http://aso.gov.au/media/chrome/flowplayer.content-3.2.0.swf","top":"0","width":"480","height":"28","border":"1px solid #7f9c48","borderRadius":"0","backgroundColor":"#000000","closeButton":true,"html":"A Big Country – Peninsula People (1968), The spirit people"},"controls":{"timeBgColor":"#ffffff","tooltipTextColor":"#ffffff","bufferGradient":"none","sliderGradient":"none","sliderColor":"#838383","durationColor":"#313131","timeColor":"#7f9c48","buttonColor":"#7f9c48","progressColor":"#515151","backgroundGradient":"none","bufferColor":"#616161","borderRadius":"0px","volumeSliderColor":"#000000","tooltipColor":"#7f9c48","backgroundColor":"#313131","progressGradient":"none","buttonOverColor":"#728B94","volumeSliderGradient":"none","height":"24","opacity":"1.0"}}}' /></object> Overview Curator’s notes Video 2 clips Principal credits Find a copy Comments 2 Map Add your review All titles Features Documentaries Television programs Short films Advertisements All people Portraits Interviews About ASO Partners Curators Help Glossary Chronology Classification Contact Credits Partners Australian Screen is part of the National Film and Sound Archive of Australia © 2026 NFSA