Ghost! What Ghosts? Night Tour at Old Melbourne Gaol – National Trust National Trust Toggle navigation Open Search Form Select State Join Donate select location National ACT NSW NT Qld SA Tas Vic WA Search for: Search Visit Places What’s on See & Do Stay Group Visits Venue hire Heritage Festival Shop Visitor FAQs Gift Card Protect Conserve Our work Restoration Appeals Conservation Projects Workshops & Events Save Heritage Protection Types of Protection Heritage Register Advocacy Toolkit Our Campaigns Toolkits & Resources Advocacy Blog Learn Collections Our Collection Explore the Collection Collection Highlights Donate an Object Schools Education Programs Primary Education Secondary Education Professional Development Resources Research Services Get involved Membership Join Renew Gift Member Portal Member Events Give Donate Bequests Vintage Clothing Sale Foundations Branches Volunteer Careers About About us People Board Leadership Team Committees News & Blog Publications Annual Report Contact us National ACT NSW NT Qld SA Tas Vic WA Event Victoria Ghost! What Ghosts? Night Tour at Old Melbourne Gaol Ghost! What Ghosts? Night Tour at Old Melbourne Gaol 11 Jun 2026 ‐ 04 Jul 2026 6:30 pm ‐ 7:30 pm Adult – $45 Concession & Students – $40 VIC Book Now More Information Thursday, 11 & 25 June & 2 July | 8.00pm - 9.00pm Friday, 19 June | 8.00pm - 9.00pm Saturday, 13 & 27 June & 4 July | 8.00pm - 9.00pm *Until sold out Old Melbourne Gaol, 377 Russell Street, Melbourne CBD Become a National Trust Member Book now Brace yourself for decades worth of bone-strumming tales of unexplained sights, sounds and encounters after dark at the Old Melbourne Gaol. Not for the faint of heart. ‘Ghosts! What Ghosts?’ takes daring participants into the mysterious and supernatural realms that linger within the gaol’s cold stone walls. This uniquely haunting experience is led by seasoned guides with an intimate knowledge of the gaol’s darker history, bringing forth tales of the unexplained, the eerie, and the haunted. Important Information: Due to the sometimes graphic nature of the tales, this immersive tour is for ages 16 years and older. This night tour is conducted in the dark and includes confined spaces, and appropriate footwear is recommended. The tour duration is 1 hour. Please arrive 15 minutes prior to your tour start time to avoid disappointment. Latecomers will not be granted entry and will not be provided a refund. No filming or photography is allowed during the tour. At the end of your tour, there will be time to take photos. The Gaol offers partial wheelchair accessibility, but please note that some areas, such as stairs and upper levels, may limit access. While we strive to accommodate all accessibility needs during our tours, this may not always be possible, so we recommend considering this when booking. For any questions or assistance, please contact our team directly. Book online OR contact the Bookings Team on +61 3 9656 9889 for private group bookings. Related content Related Places Related Events Related Education Related Collections Related Exhibitions Related Initiatives Related News Related Publications Related Services Old Melbourne Gaol A visit to the Old Melbourne Gaol will introduce you to stories of the many inmates who spent time in its cells, More National Trust Visit Places What’s on See & Do Stay Group Visits Venue hire Heritage Festival Shop Visitor FAQs Gift Card Protect Conserve Our work Restoration Appeals Conservation Projects Workshops & Events Save Heritage Protection Types of Protection Heritage Register Advocacy Toolkit Our Campaigns Toolkits & Resources Advocacy Blog Learn Collections Our Collection Explore the Collection Collection Highlights Donate an Object Schools Education Programs Primary Education Secondary Education Professional Development Resources Research Services Get involved Membership Join Renew Gift Member Portal Member Events Give Donate Bequests Vintage Clothing Sale Foundations Branches Volunteer Careers About About us People Board Leadership Team Committees News & Blog Publications Annual Report Contact us Subscribe State Select State ACT NSW NT QLD TAS VIC SA WA Email (Required) This field is hidden when viewing the form Referrer This field is hidden when viewing the form ahf_referrer Yes This field is hidden when viewing the form ahf_referrer_vic Yes This field is hidden when viewing the form non_ahf_referrer_vic Yes Δ Acknowledgement of Traditional Custodians We acknowledge the Traditional Owners of Country throughout Victoria and recognise their continuing connection to lands, waters and communities. We pay respects to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander cultures; and to Elders past and present. Safeguarding Vulnerable People All people visiting or engaging with the National Trust of Australia (Victoria) have a right to feel and be safe, respected, valued and protected from harm. Read our commitment to safeguarding vulnerable people here. Volunteer portal follow us on facebook follow us on instagram follow us on Youtube Address: National Trust of Australia (Victoria), Tasma Terrace, 6 Parliament Place, East Melbourne Vic 3002 | email: info@nattrust.com.au | tel: +61 3 9656 9800 | fax: +61 3 9650 5397 © 2026 National Trust Accessibility Credits Disclaimer Privacy Menu Search National Trust Opening Times Find a place Become a Member What's On Venue Hire