Hobart Penitentiary - Paranormal Investigation – National Trust National Trust Toggle navigation Open Search Form Select State Join Donate select location National ACT NSW NT Qld SA Tas Vic WA Search for: Search Visit Places What’s on Pandemonium Venue hire Heritage Festival Shop Protect Advocacy Learn Collections Education programs Get involved Membership Donate Sponsorship Volunteers Work With Us About About us News Contact us National ACT NSW NT Qld SA Tas Vic WA Event Tasmania Hobart Penitentiary – Paranormal Investigation Hobart Penitentiary – Paranormal Investigation 16 Feb 2025 ‐ 16 Feb 2025 7:00 pm ‐ 11:00 pm $70 TAS Book Now More Information 98a Campbell Street, Hobart, 7000 16 February 2025 7:00 PM Limited spaces - Book Now On the anniversary of the day six people were executed, explore one of the most haunted sites in Tasmania. Spend four thrilling hours uncovering eerie tales of courtroom sentences, solitary confinement, and the 32 souls who met their fate at the Gallows. Will you encounter something otherworldly? Book now and find out! Explore the Paranormal On this chilling anniversary—the date when six people met their fate here at the gallows—step into the shadows and uncover the haunted history of this notorious site. Duration: 4 hours This immersive investigation offers plenty of time to delve deep into the eerie history of this chilling site alongside your expert tour guides. What Awaits You: Hear haunting tales of the men and women sentenced in the foreboding courtrooms. Walk the dark convict built tunnels and stand in the solitary confinement cells, where whispers of the past still linger. Stand beneath the imposing Gallows, where 32 souls , including these six, met their fate—and perhaps meet one of them yourself. Bring your courage and curiosity for a night of paranormal intrigue on this historically significant date. Will you catch a glimpse of something otherworldly? Dare to join us? Spaces are limited—book now! National Trust Visit Places What’s on Pandemonium Venue hire Heritage Festival Shop Protect Advocacy Learn Collections Education programs Get involved Membership Donate Sponsorship Volunteers Work With Us About About us News Contact us Subscribe State Select State ACT NSW NT QLD TAS VIC SA WA Email (Required) This field is hidden when viewing the form Referrer This field is hidden when viewing the form ahf_referrer Yes This field is hidden when viewing the form ahf_referrer_vic Yes This field is hidden when viewing the form non_ahf_referrer_vic Yes Δ follow us on facebook follow us on instagram Postal Address: 6 Brisbane Street, Hobart, Tas 7000 | email: admin@nationaltrusttas.org.au | tel: (03) 6231 0911 Address: State Office: 6 Brisbane Street, Hobart, Tas 7000 © 2026 National Trust Accessibility Credits Disclaimer Privacy Menu Search National Trust