Dark Ghost Tours - Afterlife Tales of the Hobart Convict Penitentiary – National Trust National Trust Toggle navigation Open Search Form Select State Join Donate select location National ACT NSW NT Qld SA Tas Vic WA Search for: Search Visit Places What’s on Pandemonium Venue hire Heritage Festival Shop Protect Advocacy Learn Collections Education programs Get involved Membership Donate Sponsorship Volunteers Work With Us About About us News Contact us National ACT NSW NT Qld SA Tas Vic WA Event Tasmania Dark Ghost Tours – Afterlife Tales of the Hobart Convict Penitentiary Dark Ghost Tours – Afterlife Tales of the Hobart Convict Penitentiary Event TAS We’re telling the tales they told us not to share. Step into the shadows with Afterlife Tales —the ghost tour they warned us not to run. For 90 chilling minutes, explore true stories of death, darkness, and the unexplained at the Hobart Convict Penitentiary and beyond. Walk the halls where 32 souls met the noose, feel the weight of history in the gallows, and follow your lantern-lit path through haunted tunnels echoing with disembodied footsteps. This is Tasmania’s darker side—revealed only after dark. Dare to join us? TICKETS: This is an adults-only tour and not for the faint-hearted. BOOK NOW! IMPORTANT INFORMATION: Bookings are essential as the small tours are only able to accommodate 12 people. This is a guided, lantern-lit walking tour around the historic site at night with lights out. The Hobart Convict Penitentiary site has steep, narrow stairs and uneven convict-made flooring throughout the property – so access is limited. The Ghost Tour is not suitable for people with restricted mobility and is unfortunately not wheelchair accessible. CONTENT WARNING: Themes are of a much darker nature than our regular Ghost Tours and we recommend considering whether this specialised tour is appropriate for all participants. ENTRY CONDITIONS: To ensure the safety of our staff and other visitors, guests that arrive under any form of intoxication will be refused entry and forfeit their payment. The National Trust of Australia (Tasmania) and Stacey’s Ghost and Paranormal Tours reserve the right to remove or decline access to any persons engaging in or intending disruptive behaviour. BOOKING CONDITIONS: Please arrive 15 minutes before your scheduled tour, to allow time to check in and move to your tour departure point. As the site is secured during the tour we are unable to accept late arrivals. Bookings close two (2) hours prior to session start. Flat shoes are recommended due to the historic nature of the building including steep narrow steps and uneven stone floors. For specific enquiries regarding content covered please contact the tour operator – Stacey’s Ghost and Paranormal Tours on: E: oldhobartgaoltours@gmail.com National Trust Visit Places What’s on Pandemonium Venue hire Heritage Festival Shop Protect Advocacy Learn Collections Education programs Get involved Membership Donate Sponsorship Volunteers Work With Us About About us News Contact us Subscribe State Select State ACT NSW NT QLD TAS VIC SA WA Email (Required) This field is hidden when viewing the form Referrer This field is hidden when viewing the form ahf_referrer Yes This field is hidden when viewing the form ahf_referrer_vic Yes This field is hidden when viewing the form non_ahf_referrer_vic Yes Δ follow us on facebook follow us on instagram Postal Address: 6 Brisbane Street, Hobart, Tas 7000 | email: admin@nationaltrusttas.org.au | tel: (03) 6231 0911 Address: State Office: 6 Brisbane Street, Hobart, Tas 7000 © 2026 National Trust Accessibility Credits Disclaimer Privacy Menu Search National Trust