Ghosts? What Ghosts? – Night Tour | Old Melbourne Gaol 🎟️ $30 Tickets for Under 30s. Valid Monday to Thursday. What’s On The Site History Plan Your Visit Venue Hire Buy Tickets Billie B Brown Ned Kelly’s Last Stand Ghosts? What Ghosts! Night Tour Hangman’s Night Tour Ned Kelly’s Last Stand – After Dark The Original Gaol Old Magistrates’ Court City Watch House Tickets: $45 Adult $40 Concession *Booking fees apply. Bookings essential Duration: 1 hour Please arrive 15 minutes early Book online OR contact the Bookings Team on +61 3 9656 9889 for private group bookings. Book Tickets Ghosts? What Ghosts? – Night Tour Various dates and times - Please check availability at booking Brace yourself for decades worth of bone-strumming tales of unexplained sights, sounds and encounters after dark at the Old Melbourne Gaol. Not for the faint of heart. ‘Ghosts! What Ghosts?’ takes daring participants into the mysterious and supernatural realms that linger within the gaol’s cold stone walls. This uniquely haunting experience is led by seasoned guides with an intimate knowledge of the gaol’s darker history, bringing forth tales of the unexplained, the eerie, and the haunted. Due to the sometimes graphic nature of the tales, this immersive tour is for ages 16 years and older. Important Information: > This night tour is conducted in the dark and includes confined spaces, and appropriate footwear is recommended. > Please arrive 15 minutes prior to your tour start time to avoid disappointment. Latecomers will not be granted entry and will not be provided a refund. > No filming or photography is allowed during the tour. At the end of your tour, there will be time to take photos. The Gaol offers partial wheelchair accessibility, but please note that some areas, such as stairs and upper levels, may limit access. While we strive to accommodate all accessibility needs during our tours, this may not always be possible, so we recommend considering this when booking. For any questions or assistance, please contact our team directly. Add to calendar Google Calendar iCalendar Outlook 365 Outlook Live Purchase Tickets What’s on Wednesday 24 June 2026 Cell of Cthulhu Wednesday 24 June | 6.30pm-9.30pm Step inside the setting of the Former City Watch House at Old Melbourne Gaol for a three-hour collaborative storytelling.. Book now Weekends (Selected Times) Ned Kelly’s Last Stand – Guided Tour Weekends (Selected Times) | $5 with any General Admission Ticket Step behind the walls of Old Melbourne Gaol, where Australia’s most notorious outlaw met his end — and the legend be.. Book now Daily (Selected Times) Life in the City Watch House Daily (Select Times) | $5 with any General Admission Ticket Bring the whole family along and discover what it’s like to ‘have the book thrown at you’ in this interactive expe.. Book now Night Tour Hangman’s Night Tour Select Nights | Separate Ticket Required Let the Hangman show you around... Book now SCHOOL HOLIDAYS Billie B Brown and the Case of the Missing Treasure Daily during School Holidays | 27 June to 12 July 2026 These school holidays, Old Melbourne Gaol becomes the setting for a world-first immersive Billie B Brown experience, bri.. Book now Available Daily Self Guided Audio Tour Available Daily | Including with General Admission Day Ticket Delve into the highlights and history of Old Melbourne Gaol and enrich your understanding of this significant site. Our.. Book now Special Offer $30 Tickets for Under 30s Monday to Thursday. Valid for General Admission Tickets Make the most of this limited-time offer to visit (or revisit) one of Melbourne's most historic sites. Make the most of.. Book now Saturday 7 November 2026 Member Event: Dress Detectives Saturday 7 November | 2.00pm-4.00pm Discover the evolving world of fashion and society through the National Trust’s Fashion & Dress Collection at Old Magi.. Book now Night Tour Ghosts? What Ghosts? – Night Tour Select Nights | Separate Ticket Required Brace yourself for the Gaol's most haunted stories... Book now Night Tour Ned Kelly’s Last Stand – Evening Tour Select Nights | Separate Ticket Required Step into the darkness between the walls of Old Melbourne Gaol where Australia’s most infamous outlaw met his end —.. Book now Open Daily Women & Children of the Gaol Open Daily | Included with General Admission Day Pass Discover a suite of cells devoted to the histories of the women & children of the gaol... Book now Old Melbourne Gaol 377 Russell Street Melbourne VIC 3000 03 9656 9889 bookings@nattrust.com.au What’s On The Site History Plan Your Visit Venue Hire School Programs Volunteer Disclaimer Privacy Accessibility We acknowledge the Wurundjeri Woiwurrung people as the Traditional Owners of the land on which the Old Melbourne Gaol is located. We pay our respects to their Elders past and present, and recognise their continuing connection to lands, waters and communities. Copyright 2026. National Trust of Australia – Victoria. All Rights Reserved. All images copyright National Trust unless otherwise stated. Website by The Mighty Wonton Stay in Touch Be the first to hear about our latest news, get inspiration for great days out and learn about the work done by the National Trust to protect Victoria’s heritage. SIGN UP NOW ✖