Ghost Tours at Port Arthur - Off Season Tasmania 2026 Lightwave Festival this 17th July 2026 at the Port Arthur Historic Site | Tickets on sale now Search: Submit Search site Agent Log In Buy Tickets Book restaurant Plan Plan My Visit Opening Hours Guide Talks at Port Arthur Getting Here Travelling with Kids Eat + Drink Accessibility Gift Shop Experience Port Arthur Site Entry Tours & Exhibitions Ghost Tours Picnics at Port Arthur Learn Plan your excursion Onsite programs Learning resources History Lightwave Festival Agent Log In Search: Submit Start Search Menu Book restaurant Buy Tickets Winter lantern-lit ghost tour Do you believe in ghosts? Rug up and let lanterns light your way as Port Arthur reveals a different side in winter’s crisp dark nights. Mysterious, intriguing, unforgettable. Follow your expert guide through some of Port Arthur’s infamous buildings and ruins on this 90-minute lantern-lit ghost tour. More than 1000 people died at Port Arthur during its 47-year history as a penal settlement, and some people say that the souls of the departed have never left. Documented ghost stories have been associated with Port Arthur since 1870, and since that time, many people have added to Port Arthur’s haunted reputation with their own accounts of paranormal activity. Hear vivid stories of unexplained events that have baffled and alarmed convicts, free settlers, soldiers and visitors. Decide for yourself if the tales are true. TOUR TIMES Ghost Tours run approximately 90 minutes and departure times may vary. From April to September, tours depart at 6:00pm and 8:00pm. Departure times may vary so we recommend you check tour times on your preferred date when you book online . CHILDREN ON GHOST TOURS The suitability of Ghost Tours for children generally depends on the age and ‘stage’ of your children. Ghost Tours are popular with older children however if your child is very young, very active or susceptible to nightmares, then Ghost Tours may not be suitable. Please note that anyone disrupting a tour may be asked to leave the tour. IMPORTANT INFORMATION This is a guided, lantern-lit walking tour that includes a 2km walk around the historic site. Due to the limited access through the dark recesses of our heritage buildings, the Ghost Tour is not suitable for people with restricted mobility and is not wheelchair accessible. Tours operate in most weather conditions, so make sure you’re prepared for the conditions – please note that umbrellas cannot be taken on the tour. Please arrive 15–30 minutes before your scheduled tour, to allow time to check in and move to your tour departure point. Book your winter lantern-lit ghost tour ticket now. Tour Times Tours currently depart at 6:00pm and 8:00pm Pricing Adult: $35 Child: $18 Buy tickets Subscribe to our newsletter Subscribe Information About Us Support and Donations Careers and Volunteers Venue Hire Media Enquiries Travel Trade Navigation Home Plan What’s On Eat + Drink For Schools History Agent Login Contact Port Arthur Historic Site Arthur Highway Port Arthur Tasmania 7182 Australia 1800 659 101 reservations@portarthur.org.au Facebook Twitter / X.com Instagram YouTube Port Arthur Historic Site is a special place of complex history, heritage and compelling stories. It is a place of global significance and one of the 11 places that together form the UNESCO Australian Convict Sites World Heritage Property. Web Design by Ionata Digital WHILE YOU’RE HERE EXPLORE OUR OTHER SITES Port Arthur Historic Site is a 90-minute drive from nipaluna / Hobart, and the journey offers some of the best sightseeing in lutruwita / Tasmania. Visit The Coal Mines Historic Site at Saltwater River, and visit The Cascades Female Factory in South Hobart upon your return. Cascades Female Factory Cascades Female Factory Historic Site aims to foster a greater understanding and appreciation for the largely untold story of female convicts and their children. Coal Mines Historic Site The Coal Mines Historic Site is an outstanding example of the 19th-century European global strategy of using the forced labour of convicts. Acknowledgement of Country We would like to acknowledge that the Port Arthur Historic Site is built on unceded Aboriginal land. We pay respect to the Palawa (Tasmanian Aboriginal) Community, their Elders past and present. Continue