DOCUMENT RESUME 



ED 482 118 



IR 058 804 



AUTHOR 
TITLE 
PUB DATE 
NOTE 



AVAILABLE FROM 

PUB TYPE 
EDRS PRICE 
DESCRIPTORS 



IDENTIFIERS 



Nevile, Liddy; Lissonnet, Sophie 

Dublin Core: The Base for an Indigenous Culture Environment? 
2003-00-00 

9p.; In: Museums and the Web 2003: Selected Papers from an 
International Conference (7th, Charlotte, NC, March 19-22, 2003) ; 
see IR 058 801. 

For full text: http://www.archimuse.com/mw2003/ 
papers/nevile/nevile . html/ . 

Reports - Evaluative (142) — Speeches/Meeting Papers (150) 

EDRS Price MF01/PC01 Plus Postage. 

Access to Information; ^Cataloging; Catalogs; Cooperative Programs; 
Culture; Foreign Countries; ^Indigenous Populations; Information 
Technology; Metadata; Preservation; Programming; Programming 
Languages 

Australia; Digital Collections; Digital Preservation; Digitizing; 

* Dublin Core; HTML; *Rock Art; XML 



ABSTRACT 

A day in Cape York, in the far north east of Australia, can change the 
life of a modern Australian. In that time, one can see hundreds of examples of rock 
art that are up to 36,000 years old, sharply contrasting the history of Indigenous 
people and the immigration of Europeans . One such visit led to a proposed collaboration 
between the Quinkan Culture Elders and a team of metadata researchers. The researchers 
proposed a Qualified Dublin Core style catalog to be used to identify and record 
examples of Quinkan Culture so Elders could at last gain access to information needed 
to manage the proliferation of unauthorized publications about Quinkan culture, and to 
"bring back home" cultural representations. In addition, the catalog would allow the 
Elders to make decisions about publishing their own representations. This paper 
describes the journey of members of the team developing "Matchbox, " a cataloging 
system, as they have sought a way of using Qualified DC metadata (QDC) to describe, 
collect, and represent Quinkan Culture. One focus in this paper is how developing a 
QDC representation has led to questions of cultural definition and, simultaneously, of 
the use of technologies such as HTML, XML and RDF. (Author) 



0 

ERIC 



Reproductions supplied by EDRS are the best that can be made 
from the original document. 



IR058804 ED 482 118 




1 Register 
! Workshops 
I Sessions 
Speakers 
1 Interactions 
I Demonstrations 
| Exhibits 
! Events 

■ J Best of the Web 
Key Dates 
Charlotte 



A&MI 



Archives & Museum 
Informatics 
158 Lee Avenue 
Toronto Ontario 
M4E 2P3 Canada 



ph: +1 416-691-2516 
fx: +1 416-352-6025 



info@arc himu se.com 

www.archimuse.com 



Q. 



Search 

A&MI 



PAPERS 

Museums and the Web 2003 

Dublin Core: The Base For An Indigenous 
Culture Environment? 



Liddy Nevile, La Trobe University, Australia, and 
Sophie Lissonnet, James Cook University, Australia 

Abstract 

A day in Cape York, in the far north east of Australia, can change the life 
of a modern Australian. In that time, one can see hundreds of examples of 
rock art that are up to 36,000 years old, sharply contrasting the history of | 
Indigenous people and the immigration of Europeans. . 

j 

One such visit led to a proposed collaboration between the Quinkan 
Culture Elders and a team of metadata researchers. The researchers 
proposed a Qualified Dublin Core style catalogue to be used to identify 
and record examples of Quinkan Culture so Elders could at last gain 
access to information needed to manage the proliferation of unauthorised 
publications about Quinkan culture, and to 'bring back home’ cultural 
representations. In addition, the catalogue would allow the Elders to make 
decisions about publishing their own representations. 



U.S. DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION 
Office of Educational Research and Improvement 

EDUCATIONAL RESOURCES INFORMATION 
CENTER (ERIC) 

□ This document has been reproduced as 
received from the person or organization 
originating it. 

□ Minor changes have been made to 
improve reproduction quality. 



Points of view or opinions stated in this 
document do not necessarily represent 
official OERI position or policy. 



J 



PERMISSION TO REPRODUCE AND 
DISSEMINATE THIS MATERIAL HAS 
BEEN GRANTED BY 



This paper describes the journey of members of the team developing 
'Matchbox’, a cataloguing system, as they have sought a way of using 
Qualified DC metadata (QDC) to describe, collect, and represent Quinkan 
Culture. Of interest in this paper is how developing a QDC representation 
has led to questions of cultural definition and, simultaneously, of the use of -j 
technologies such as HTML, XML and RDF. y 



_Bearmar 



TO THE EDUCATIONAL RESOURCES 
INFORMATION CENTER (ERIC) 



Keywords: Qualified Dublin Core, HTML, XML, RDF, Quinkan Rock Art, culture 



Introduction 

A day in Cape York, in the far north east of Australia, can change the life of a 
modern Australian. In that time, one can see hundreds of examples of rock art 
that are up to 36,000 years old, sharply contrasting the history of Indigenous 
people and the immigration of Europeans. 



Join our Mailing List . 
Priva cy. 



Updated: March 13, 2003 



One such visit led to a proposal for collaboration between the Quinkan Culture 
Elders and a team of metadata researchers_[i]_. The researchers proposed a 
Qualified Dublin Core style_[ij]_catalogue to be used to identify and record 
examples of Quinkan Culture so Elders could at last gain access to information 
needed to manage the proliferation of unauthorised publications about Quinkan 
culture, and to ’bring back home’ cultural representations. In addition, the 
catalogue would allow the Elders to make decisions about publishing their own 
representations. 



In the nearest city (200 miles away), Elders attended a computer workshop and 
accessed the Web. Most exciting was the viewing of a recent video of some 
Elders talking about a honey tree. They enjoyed sharing their stories of collecting 
honey. They decided a multimedia catalogue would make it easy to prompt new 
stories and explanations without the need to travel far out into the country. 



Meanwhile, working with the Dublin Core Metadata Element Set (DC) has been 
found by the authoritative museum community to lack much of the richness that 
is valued by curators. CIMI [iii] several years ago energetically investigated the 



O 

ERJC 

flle://E:\mw2003\papers\nevile\nevile.html 





2 



5/27/2003 






possibilities and found it necessary to modify and extend DC. This work was 
done with early versions of DC, however. Recently, DC has gained from 
experience and changed so that it may, indeed, now perform more usefully in this 
role. The Quinkan researchers are investigating this. 



This paper describes a journey undertaken in a university office by some 
researchers through a myriad of disciplines as they have sought, through 
literature and so far a very few interactions with Indigenous Elders, a way of 
using Qualified DC metadata (QDC) to describe, collect, and represent Quinkan 
Culture. 

Of interest in this paper is how developing a QDC representation has led to 
questions of cultural definition. This is not a paper about how Indigenous people 
have worked on their cultural interests. It is about how the questions being asked 
by the researchers have changed. In fact, these questions appear as indicators 
of the change in their understanding. Why such changes are reported here is 
because they seem to offer a way of thinking about the use of metadata-based 
technologies to explore the nature of tools that may be useful to those working in 
cultural contexts. 

Context 

We held a series of meetings and exploratory visits to the far north east of 
Australia, where the communities are small and Indigenous people have been 
involuntarily scattered. We, a small group of European Australians, proposed a 
project that we hoped would serve as a useful resource for our Indigenous 
colleagues and help them repatriate their heritage. We are not experts in such 
matters, with the exception of one of us who is a specialist in the archaeology of 
the region. 

To us novices, it seemed that a catalogue of cultural heritage would make it 
easier for the Indigenous people to control their heritage. There was a rewarding 
workshop in which Indigenous Elders showed their pleasure in sharing 
interpretations of events and objects, and we assumed from this that a catalogue 
might be a good organising tool and stimulus for gathering such stories. 

Naively, perhaps, we thought Quinkan culture would somehow be amenable to 
being catalogued. It seemed that all that would be required was something like 
an extension of an archaeological catalogue. 

Sadly, there no longer are rock artists, and relevant cultural practices are scarce. 
Today, Elders tell stories of hunting, of gathering bush tucker, of lives in which 
they have unfortunately been victims of the invasion of their country. They gather 
to celebrate their dance culture. They take people to see some of the many Rock 
Art paintings. There has been carbon dating of some paintings, scores of 
anthropological, geological, and many other forms of study of the region, and 
there are data in many forms and locations world-wide. 

The government is building an ‘interpretive centre’ in the region, but what is to 
happen there is unclear. This ’open’ museum may be a collection of tangible and 
intangible assets, a presentation site, a meeting place. Whatever, it is in its 
infancy as a cultural institution. One idea is that the Quinkan catalogue will be a 
living exhibit, an environment, in this small space, and possibly a cultural heritage 
management tool. 

The First Question 

Given that the most obvious ’cultural assets’ in the region are Rock Art paintings 
and petroglyphs, our focus naturally gravitated towards these. This is not all there 
is in the region, of course, but such a vast number in apparently original condition 
is attractive as a ’collection’, a set of objects that can be identified, described, 
possibly even quantified. It is also interesting to note that these paintings are 



O 

ERJC 

file://E:\mw2003\papers\nevile\nevile.html 



3 



5/27/2003 



fixed; their location is stable and discernible in great detail using modern geo- 
spatial tools and techniques. At first glance, it might seem that the first question 
would be how to describe the location of the paintings, and then everything would 
follow. 

Quinkan Rock Art occurs in what have been called galleries, usually open 
shelters high up on steep overhanging rock outcrops. The areas are appealing 
because of their aspect, catching the breezes and providing shelter, and 
frequently also having good views of the surrounding country. Galleries contain 
as many as hundreds of paintings, often superimposed on one another, with 
remarkably fresh-looking paintings in abundance. Fortunately, although there are 
almost no resources available to protect this heritage, it is isolated and has not 
suffered, as it might, from extensive tourism. Like the flora and fauna of Australia, 
the Rock Art sites are geologically frail, and human visitations cause significant 
damage to the sites themselves, as well as to the paintings. 

Not all paintings or galleries have been identified and had their location recorded. 
Some have had minute details recorded about them, while others are known to 
be sort of ’over there’. But the idea of a stable identification system with 
descriptions of material culture is attractive, and modern technology offers great 
precision to the task of recording relevant locations. 

So using location with sufficient detail to develop a geo-spatial topology could 
solve our problems. This is, after all, a typical approach: every resource in our 
collection could have the location of its content so well specified that it would only 
need to be differentiated from others that are related to exactly the same location. 
Trouble is, Elders do not want their paintings, or presumably their culture in 
general, identified in this way. The way we want to describe locations is, a matter 
of cultural preference, and geo-spatial science is not a traditional way. In 
Australian Indigenous cultures, land is not just a commodity, and location is not 
just a number. The sites where paintings are located are the same places where 
sacred objects and spirits are likely to be found. People and their country, 
locations as others think of them, are inextricable intertwined. Access is often 
limited to a few people, and the rules for access are not published. 

For non-lndigenous researchers who work on Indigenous cultural heritage in the 
area, recording and revealing locations has no more interest than for their 
Indigenous colleagues. The paintings are in remote country, perhaps several 
days' walking time from the nearest accessible track, and that might be several 
days' driving from the nearest town. Small helicopters can sometimes land 
directly near sites. But site visitation is always at a cost, and sadly, it is the 
condition of the paintings that suffers most when dust is disturbed by visitors and 
abrasion wears out yet more of the precious images, or when ancient meeting 
places are disturbed. 

What if we were dealing with a Rock Art painting, a chart, a photograph, a 
scanned image, etc and all were at exactly the same place? The geo-spatial 
information would not be sufficient to distinguish among the objects just listed. 
The differences among the objects would be of form, perhaps ownership, 
possibly content as viewed by different people, and more. Recording these 
differences, or identifiers, is the primary work of the Dublin Core Metadata 
Element Set (DCMES). Every object described by DCMES has a unique 
resource identifier (a URI) and a range of other identifiers. 

Seeking Answers to the First Question 

So the first question was: how should the objects to be catalogued be described 
using a DC-based system? 

Starting in what seemed the obvious place, the team consulted the resident 
archaeologist who, as an archaeologist, has focused on particular examples of 
material culture, paintings. 




4 



5/27/2003 



Typical archaeological work describes in detail some aspects of the paintings and 
has at times depended upon descriptive vocabularies that allow for classification 
of aspects of paintings. A good example is the use of colour classifications that 
allow archaeologists to make comparisons of the colouring of paintings. Given 
that all the paintings are in the open air, the time of day makes a significant 
difference to their appearance. Observations of colour need to be time-stamped 
and seasonally-marked as part of their codification if they are to be useful. The 
development of useful colour classifications has therefore been of interest to 
archaeologists, and there are specialised and idiosyncratic classification 
schemata. 

So to classify all the Rock Art paintings by colour should be a relatively objective 
activity, and there are established criteria. The same is true of other aspects of 
the paintings: the date, the location, the shapes of the objects within the 
paintings, even photographs of the paintings, drawings of them, stories about 
them, everything could be described. Not all the items would be paintings, of 
course. In fact, we anticipate stories about paintings and stories about those 
stories, something like annotations of interpretations or descriptions. But still 
these objects can be described. Each one is a unique object and with a good 
description, can be identified. 

The information scientist in the team is versed in metadata and had no trouble 
building a metadata profile that provided for elements and sub-elements, with 
controlled vocabularies, specialised formats, etc. This work made good sense 
and could be neatly represented in a hypertext Web page with pull-down menus 
and active buttons. 

The ’describing process’ was reduced to the filling in of a form. The description 
would be more or less useful depending upon how well the elements and 
qualifications of them were chosen. The metadata application profile (MAP) for 
each item in the catalogue had be developed in the light of experience over many 
years, even centuries, on the part of museums, libraries, scholars and others. 

Describing objects in this way has been, for a long ’Web' time, the primary use of 
metadata, particularly of Dublin Core (DC) metadata. Finding the criteria that 
make it possible to distinguish an object from all other objects with which it might 
be confused is a primary role for a metadata profile. If a system can use the 
description of each item in an appropriate way, it will have a handle by which it 
can perform functions and provide services, such as discovery. 

A good example is provided by a resource that is a photograph. If the description 
is complete, it will be clear not only who and what are in the photograph, the 
’aboutness' of the photograph. It will also be discernible which version of the 
photograph it is, where it is, and so on, and the photograph will be distinguishable 
from another that looks similar but is, in fact, a second print from the same 
negative. 

We have come to think of this as a first dimensional activity. Unless an item can 
be uniquely identified, nothing more is possible, so its description is the crucial 
first requirement, its DNA. The description that we produce for items in Matchbox 
can be represented completely in Hypertext Markup Language (HTMLJiyJJ. It is 
capable of being written in plain text with tags to show what each bit means, and 
it can easily be read and understood by humans. Significantly, the tags can be 
read by machines so they too can tell what bit goes where. The meaning of what 
is between the tags, the content that is added to the MAP, is, of course, opaque 
to the machines. 

The First Question Leads to the First Dimension 

So working on the first question leads to a set of textual statements that are 
meaningful to humans and computers and can isolate a chosen object from 
others. 




5 



5/27/2003 



First dimension mapping (filling in of a MAP) is primarily for discovery. It can also 
be used to do simple things like pointing to links between objects. In other words, 
first dimension maps can be used in a first dimension way, for discovery, 
because they can be used for matching and thus for filtering, and so they can 
support discovery. 

An object might have the special DC tag that contains information about how one 
object relates to another. Suppose this digitised photograph is of a painting that 
records a visitor in a gallery that contains a Rock Art painting. The digitised 
photograph can be linked syntactically (by a machine) to the photograph of the 
painting if both objects are registered in the same catalogue: the digitised 
photograph will have the relationship 'is format of to the photograph. 

Significantly, the relationship is between one object and another; for instance, a 
digital file and the photograph that was scanned. There is no machine-readable 
mechanism for recording the semantic link between the photographs. That is, 
that the two photographs and the chart are all of the same Rock Art painting is 
not machine accessible information. The relationship of the semantics, or 
content, is not expressed in HTML although by filtering the HTML an application 
could get access to information to make this link. (The important thing to note is 
that HTML does not convey the link. It is not a part of the description of the 
photograph, but rather a connection that has to be made somehow.) 

It is critical that the object’s description contain the necessary information and 
that the information be in good form and understandable, with ways of 
deciphering it where necessary, such as dependence on a documented 
controlled vocabulary. It is not critical, however, that the information be in a 
simple form such as the proposed HTML version (referred to above). It may be in 
a more complex form, expressed in extensible Markup Language (XML [ v] ) or 
even using the Resource Description Framework (RDF [vi] ). Where this is the 
case, there is generally also a human-readable version made available by the 
system responsible for the representation because, although the text content is 
within the XML or RDF, it is surrounded by a lot of other syntactical clutter that 
may make reading it difficult. The form of expression is not important for its first 
dimensional use, for discovery that is based on unique identification, for example. 
Whether the additional information contained in the XML or RDF format is a 
problem or not depends upon the system using it. 

The Second Question 

The second question relates to how the semantics of the descriptions can be 
made to carry information about the structure of the descriptions. How can it be 
made known to a machine that this object is a scanned version of that object? It 
turns out that finding a way to represent structure is the next problem. 

If I am looking for something and do not know its DNA, or MAP values, I may 
want to 'browse' through what is available until I find something that will do for 
me. This is the typical position of many users of Web navigation; they know they 
want something but either have not spent the time or do not know how to frame a 
discovery question that will guide them to a satisfactory object (containing the 
required information). This user is doing something quite different from those who 
know exactly what objects they are looking for - the user in this case is usually 
looking for information about something but not sure what form that information 
will take (and maybe does not care anyway). The mapping that will provide this 
user with what is wanted will have to be used somehow to link objects in some 
hierarchy that will lead the user towards material satisfactory for the purpose. In 
fact, often the user likes to vary the discovery process and tries at times to 
narrow the field with a search during the browse, but inasmuch as he or she is 
using a browse navigation system, the object's description MAP will be essential. 
It will be used to show that this is a scanned version of that, for instance, 
because the two objects will be identified as having a relationship to different 
parts of a single hierarchy of production of digitised images. 

Question Two Works to the Second Dimension 




6 



5/27/2003 



In the Matchbox case, it is not clear how users will want to browse, or, more 
correctly perhaps, what they will expect to find as the underlying structure of a 
browsing activity. Users do not always see the structure, but it is important that 
they learn to 'drive' it, and this usually comes from the effective development of a 
structural representation in the users’ minds. Users do not like suddenly being 
jumped to a resource or set of resources that do not have what appears to them 
as a logical connection with what they thought they were asking for, or the 
resources they thought they were already viewing. 

Some Matchbox users do act in predictable ways: those who work within 
established disciplines usually have learned to respond to the disciplinary 
taxonomies and terminology and can make fairly accurate guesses about what 
will happen if they are browsing up or down a hierarchy of criteria. It is also fairly 
predictable what type of criteria they will use: title, format, aboutness, authorship, 
etc., in many cases. 

The Dublin Core Metadata Application Profile captures this information well. 

Once there is more specificity, qualifications to the DCMES can focus the mind 
appropriately, especially if there are additional elements that are useful in the 
context (for instance, the CIMI profile for museums). But in order to be machine 
readable, this structure must be declared in syntax that makes it accessible to 
machines. So the team has to express its qualified, extended Dublin Core-based 
metadata application profile for Matchbox in a way that will convey the 
relationships. XML, as recommended for the DCMES, makes it possible to 
declare both the relationships and the data. 

The photograph of the person referred to above might contain information such 
as that the person 'is the child of xx’ and 'is the parent of yy'. This is interesting 
but not readable information if it is expressed in HTML: the semantics are 
opaque. But if the semantics are expressed in a machine-readable way, the 
photograph, upon inclusion in the collection, can be linked by a set structure such 
as a family tree to pictures of the parent and child if they are in the collection. 

Ideally, where elements are found useful and derived from established metadata 
application profiles, it should be easy and most accurate to simply import them 
into a new, combined, in this case Quinkan, profile, extensible Markup Language 
(XML) makes this possible, so instead of recording the maps of resources in 
HTML, it becomes necessary to record them in XML so their structures will also 
be recorded and thus decipherable. 

XML is such a versatile language that many people can be using compliant, valid 
XML, and recording the structure of their information about their resources, and 
not be constrained by having to use the same way of representing their 
information. If MAPs from different sources are to be combined, however, there 
will be a problem with also conveying the structure that is associated with those 
MAPs. XML does not provide an easy way to solve this as the structure needs to 
be declared in advance, and it may be broken by the process of combining bits 
and pieces. In other words, the structure and the information are so closely 
coupled in XML that there is a risk the coupling will be broken when the XML is 
fragmented. 

In the Matchbox case, this means recombining the pieces of others' MAPs with 
the new, special Quinkan pieces, to work in an integrated structure to be 
provided by the team. This structure, or taxonomy as we refer to it, will determine 
the browse structure. In fact, we may provide more than one to suit more than 
one group of predictable users. Some taxonomies, particularly those that are 
established elsewhere as useful to disciplined users (archaeologists, 
anthropologists, etc.), have already been identified and will be used to organise 
the semantic content of the resource maps, but they will need to be augmented 
by more general user-oriented taxonomies. 

Just as HTML was closely related to the opening up of the first dimension of 
discovery, extensible Markup language that provides structure has made 
possible the second level. Without a structured description, there is not the 




7 



5/27/2003 



control required. But once in XML, it does not matter if there is more structure 
than is necessary. For instance, if the mark-up complies with the Resource 
Description Framework (RDF), it is XML and useful at both the first and second 
level but may have added advantages. 

Pre-determining the structure of the resources unfortunately does not work well in 
the Matchbox context. Our major challenge is not to find how to catalogue 
resources so that those who work within well-defined disciplines can find them, 
but to extend the opportunities for use of the resources and particularly to find 
ways of making them useful to the Traditional Owners of the Rock Art. We had 
no idea how such people would want to classify information about their heritage. 

So we moved to question three. 

Question Three 

As soon as we asked how the resources should be organized, we found 
ourselves asking what they would be used for. If Matchbox is a cultural heritage 
tool, it should do things for its users. The problem is, we don't know what they will 
want to do. 

Perhaps users will just want to find a resource or find if a resource exists. 

Perhaps they will want to know how it came to be in the form it is in. But what if 
they want to do with resources something like they do everyday: i.e., use 
resources in a cultural practice? 

It is a well-known activity to try to find a link through friends of friends from one 
person to another: 'I know Mary and she knows Tom'. 'I am the daughter of Fred 
and he is the son of Mabel, so Mabel is my grandmother.' These are examples of 
the sort of relationships that people make between information, of cultural 
practices. 

Australian Indigenous people often have long histories of their family in their 
memory, and they can relate these to people with whom they are interacting. 
They also have kinship structures that are different from the standard atomic 
family groupings that characterise modern western society. Linking people in 
photographs in some ways associated with indigenous kinship structures might 
prove to be of interest to Matchbox users in the future. So far, such structures are 
not defined for use in Matchbox, but they may be in the near future. 

The Third Dimension 

A simple example follows. It is not something that the Indigenous people have 
said they want to d,o but it is proposed as typical of something that might be of 
interest, so it can be presented to them. 

Libby Miller and colleagues have developed Co-Depiction_[vii]_, an RDF system 
that takes a photograph, with the e-mail addresses of those in the picture, and 
uses this information to map from one person in that picture to a person in 
another picture by working on the friends-of-a-friend principle. If I am in a photo 
with Mary and Mary is in a photo with Jack, then two photos can be used to 
automatically link me to Jack. 

In the Matchbox example, the idea is that as Indigenous people often use their 
genealogy to identify themselves, it might be interesting to use a yet further 
constrained friend of a friend principle to link photographs as they are placed in a 
collection. This could be achieved by having a structure, as described before, 
and having the new photograph deliberately located in relationship to that 
structure, each photo being described as containing an image of a person in a 
particular position in a family tree. But suppose we don't know the structure or 
family-tree equivalent when we start collecting the photographs? Suppose that 
the families are intermingled in ways that are not usually documented in western 




8 



5/27/2003 



family trees? Suppose the kinship structure requires quite different sorts of 
connections to be made? All of these suppositions are probably not far from the 
truth. So we need a way of dynamically associating people and letting the 
structure emerge. We cannot be tied to a pre-determined structure. 

Describing resources in the way prescribed by RDF leaves open the 
opportunities we need. If we say of any resource, only something that can be 
said in the ' triple ' format of this resource (x) has this property (y) with this value 
(z), then we can make associations as the photos are added to the collection. 
Instead of prescribing the associations, we are choosing to leave them open but 
at the same time provide enough structure for them to have the potential to be 
used. We provide the simple triple structure in the place of a predetermined more 
complex structure, and let that be defined later on. 

Conclusion 

At last we feel we are beginning to address the requirements at the level at which 
they make some sense in our context. Matchbox needs to use RDF because it is 
a requirement for the sort of ’doing’ that a cultural heritage tool can offer its users. 
We cannot predict what our users will want to do, and we certainly realise now 
that we will not be satisfied if all we offer them is a catalogue for discovery by 
search, or even by browsing. We want to offer a cultural heritage tool, something 
that does things for them, or with which they can do things. We are aware that we 
will have to provide some means of accessing the power we provide, but the 
interface issue is not of concern here. 

This paper has worked through three levels of questions that have emerged for 
the research team associated with the Quinkan Matchbox project. The questions 
parallel the freedoms offered by the advances in the relevant technologies. 

Endnotes and References 



[i] http://www.jcu.edu.au/rockart/Matchbox 

[ii] http://dublincore.or g/ 

[iii] http://www.cimi.or g/ 

[iv] http://w w w.w3 .org/M arkU p/ 

[v] htt p://www.w3.or q /XML/ 

[vi] htt p://www.w3.or g /RDF/ 

[vii] http://swordfish.rdfweb.or g/ discovery/2001/08/ codepict/ 




9 



5/27/2003 




U.S. Department of Education 
Office of Educational Research and Improvement (OERI) 
National Library of Education (NLE) 
Educational Resources Information Center (ERIC) 




NOTICE 

Reproduction Basis 




This document is covered by a signed "Reproduction Release (Blanket)" 
form (on file within the ERIC system), encompassing all or classes of 
documents from its source organization and, therefore, does not require a 
"Specific Document" Release form. 



This document is Federally-funded, or carries its own permission to 
reproduce, or is otherwise in the public domain and, therefore, may be 
reproduced by ERIC without a signed Reproduction Release form (either 
"Specific Document" or "Blanket"). 



EFF-089 (1/2003) 



